[quote="SillySider"][color=#008000]I think my confusion in all of this comes from the fact that Foota apparently doesn't think Israel has killed enough innocent people to condemn them yet. And doesn't their Iron Dome take care of almost all of the rocks Hamas throw at Israel...Israel defends itself by killing innocent woman and children, by accident of course, but it happens, and frequently. Anyway, what is the number of dead kids you need to see before you have that "holy shit!?!?" eureka moment when everyone else's reality hits you right in the face like Mike Tyson trying to get Robin Givens to let him up in them guts? Or...Is the bombing of schools justified since Israel is defending itself? Even if they aren't bombing schools - the number of dead, innocent men, women and children in relation to the number of dead "terrorists" is just fucked. If these numbers were reversed I can't imagine what kind of public outcry there would be...Imagine if Hamas had bombed a UN back school in Israel, by accident of course, and killed a bunch of kids? Holy chit man.[/color][/quote]

Well, quite.

Alright: deep breath then!

First things first, I think the reason why the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict generates such heated debate in the West, compared to other much more deadly and barbarous conflicts in the World, is because we recognise ourselves in the Israelis, in a way that we don't with other aggressive factions in the Middle East, Africa and Asia.

It was a similar situation with the actions of the Apartheid Regime in South Africa. There were dictators like Idi Amin, Sekou Toure and Macias Nguema whose brutality in terms of methods and numbers were more egregious than the actions of the Afrikaners' National Party. But I think because we in the West recognised the European nature of the South African Government, we felt our protests would be more productive than they would be against other less culturally similar African Governments.

A further similarity between the situation in South Africa then and Israel now, is that we in the West also recognise how our own Governments acted and act as enablers of the repression being carried out. Expressly so in the case of the United States and Israel, but to a not entirely dissimilar extent between the American and British Governments, and the Apartheid-era South African Government.

Alright then... So, Israel-Palestine.

There are three primary prisms through which we can look at the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict: Practical; Legal; and Moral.

In reverse order of helpfulness (I think!):

Looking at the Conflict through a Moral Prism is pretty much the Order of the Day for our politicians and media commentators. Faced with all the on-going violence, the Public Debate gets hugely bogged down in trying to separate out the Rights and Wrongs of the situation: the "Who Started It?"; the "Who is the most intractable?"; "Who is the most ideologically crazed?"; "Who is the most murderous and brutal?"...

There is more than sixty years of History around this Conflict, and any objective analysis must conclude that none of the parties involved (and there's more than just two...) have anything to feel proud about. The best that can ever be claimed of any one side is that "They are not as bad as the other side." But even that requires an objective reckoning of each and every event in the sorry History of Israel-Palestine, which is very difficult to come by...

Because Morality is by definition subjective; Morality is *ALWAYS* a matter of perspective.

So as the violence continues to rage, how helpful really is it to try and assess the situation through a Moral Prism?

Well, that's why we (are supposed to) have the Legal Prism.

The Law is meant to be blind; to apply equally to all, without fear or favour. When Police Officers attend an incident where violence is on-going, they don't sit on the side-lines and try and establish who has the most moral claim to be committing violence. That isn't their job. Their job is to stop the violence, and then, once Peace is restored, pass the situation over to the legal system to adjudicate upon.

But when it comes to International Law (and International Lawyers!), everything is just as muddy as it is with the Moral Prism.

Foota and his ilk like to bang on about Hamas' desire to "see the Jewish Homeland" obliterated from the map of the Middle East (despite Hamas' repeated commitments to accepting withdrawal to the 1967 borders... Most recently in [url=http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-middle-east-27128902]April this year[/url]). But that was only ever hot air, because there was and is simply no way that could be achieved, no matter how much Hamas may desire it.

Conversely, Israel and the United States block every single attempt by the Palestinians to achieve a Statehood recognised by the U.N., because that would [url=http://www.counterpunch.org/2014/08/15/israels-real-target-is-not-hamas/]open up a whole can of worms[/url] that Israel isn't at all prepared to deal with.

So whilst Hamas might dream of wiping out a nuclear-armed and highly militarised Israel from the map; Israel won't even allow an economically and socially crippled Palestine onto the map in the first place.

Which leaves us left only with the Practical Prism with which to consider the Israeli-Palestinian Situation.

And practically, it is quite clear that the violence committed by both sides in the Conflict is counter-productive. It is just as clear that there can be no practical cessation of hostilities whilst the United States continues to be the key arbiter or broker of any Peace Deal. And it is clear that all the while the situation remains unresolved, more and more offences are committed by both sides that are cited as justification for continuing the conflict.

Practically then, the only response is to take responsibility for resolving the situation away from those parties that have repeatedly failed to come up with a resolution.

And that means an immediate embargo on all arms shipments to Israel (there is already an arms and everything else embargo on the Gaza Strip); and most practically, the transfer of responsibility for security within and around the Gaza Strip to an International Peacekeeping Force.

Once Peace is restored, and no more innocents are being slaughtered, the International Community can begin the same kind of reconciliation process that took place in South Africa, following the end of Apartheid.

[quote="SillySider"][color=#008000]I will not rest until the people, or at least the children of Palestine, know the soft fabric like feel of cotton candy on their lips and the stickiness on their fingers. Fuck you SG. There will be cotton candy for everyone in my world. EVERYONE![/color][/quote]

:>_  :-bd  >:D_