Human Society is less than Perfect: there's a lot of room for improvement, generally speaking.

Saddam Hussein was an arsehole; so was Muammar Gaddafi; and so is Bashar al-Assad.

But so too are: Barack Obama; Vladimir Putin; Xi Jinping; Angela Merkel; David Cameron; Francois Hollande; Benjamin Netanyahu; Recep Erdogan; and, well, the list is endless...

Let's focus on those first three individuals: Hussein; Gaddafi; and Assad.

Arseholes they undoubtedly were (and still are, in Assad's case); but it was Western Politicians who made those arseholes appear to be Demons.

If you are sitting atop the political, economic and propaganda machinery of any Western Government, you can pretty much select any leader of any nation in the Middle East (including Israel) and demonise them, if you so desire. Hell, you can even have a crack at doing it with the leaders of Russia and China, if you think it will be purposeful to do so.

If you are sitting at the head of a Nation State, then you are an arsehole. If you weren't an arsehole, you wouldn't be sitting at the head of your Nation State. An arsehole is an arsehole; the degree of arseholiness that you personally exhibit is neither here nor there.

And one of the arsehole things that arseholes do is to point their fingers at other arseholes and say:

"That guy is a bigger arsehole than me. With arseholes like him around, you should be glad that you have an arsehole like me watching out for you. I realise that I am a bit of an arsehole, but I have to be, because of arseholes like him, who are much bigger arseholes than I am. I might BE an arsehole; but I am YOUR arsehole."

Saddam Hussein and Muammar Gaddafi were the arseholes who sat atop two of the largest and most accessible pools of oil in the Middle East and North Africa. Bashar al-Assad is the arsehole who sits atop of the nation that occupies the geographical nexus between the major energy resource centre of the World, and one of the major energy consumption centres of the World.

Iraq and Libya were the most socially-developed, technologically-advanced and largely secular nations in the Middle East and North Africa. Syria was also a well-developed, secular and multi-cultural Arab State.

In the 1980's, Saddam Hussein was not considered that much of an arsehole; mainly because he was helping the arseholes in the U.S. demonise and fight the arseholes in Iran.

In the 2000's, Muammar Gadaffi was not considered that much of an arsehole; mainly because he was doing what the arseholes in the U.S., U.K. and France were telling him to do.

Bashar al-Assad has always been considered a big arsehole in the West, because he always does what the arseholes in Russia and Iran tell him to do.

In 2002, the arseholes in the U.S. decided to amp up Saddam Hussein's "Arsehole Factor" in the minds of U.S. Citizens. The arseholes in the U.K. decided to follow suit.

Hans Blix, leader of the United Nations W.M.D. Inspections Team in Iraq told the arseholes in the U.S., the U.K. and France, that with a 90% degree of certainty, he would certify that the arseholes in Iraq had no Weapons of Mass Destruction.

The arseholes in the U.S. ignored Hans Blix. The arseholes in the U.K. disputed his certification. And the arseholes in France accepted what he was saying and the information he provided to support what he was saying.

At the same time, experts on the Middle East, experts on Terrorism, and experts in the Intelligence Community advised the arseholes in the U.S., the U.K. and elsewhere, that if Saddam Hussein were forcibly removed from power, the lid that he had violently and terrifyingly kept shut on Islamist Terrorism in Iraq would burst open, and Iraq would become a swamp infested with Islamist Terrorists.

The arseholes in the U.S. ignored this advice; and the arseholes in the U.K. pretended they hadn't heard it.

Also at the same time, experts from the U.N. High Commission on Refugees, as well as experts from numerous N.G.O.'s working in the Middle East, warned that a military attack to forcibly remove Saddam Hussein from power would result in a Humanitarian Crisis in Iraq. They warned that a military attack would destroy a civilian infrastructure that was the envy of the Arab World; that such an attack would open Iraqi Society to Sectarian Factionalism and probably Civil War; that the forcible removal of the arsehole Hussein would make life immeasurably worse for the average Iraqi.

The arseholes in the U.S. ignored this advice.

Virtually identical advice was offered in the run-up to the N.A.T.O. campaign in Libya in 2011.

This was also ignored by the arseholes in the U.S. and the U.K., and also this time around, by the arseholes in France.

And the same advice was offered in the run-up to a proposed attack against Syria in 2013. This advice was also ignored by the arseholes in the U.S., and by some of the arseholes in the U.K. Government, but fortunately, not by all of the arseholes in the British Parliament.

Unable to unleash the same kind of devastation that had been wrought on Iraq and Libya, the arseholes in the U.S. and U.K. then turned a blind eye to the support that was being given by the arseholes in Saudi Arabia, the Gulf States and Turkey, to Islamist Terrorist organisations in Iraq and Syria.

Iraq, Libya and Syria are now failed states.

Iraq, Libya and Syria are now hotbeds of Islamist Terrorism.

There are now Humanitarian Crises in Iraq, Libya and Syria.

Exactly as predicted by the experts who knew what they were talking about.

And exactly as ignored by the arseholes in the U.S., the U.K. and Europe.

Saddam Hussein and Muammar Gaddafi were arseholes, as is Bashar al-Assad.

But they were no bigger arseholes than the arseholes in Washington, London and Paris, who decided to ignore all expert advice, and to create untold misery and enormous danger by destabilising Iraq, Libya and Syria.

Nobody ever said that Hussein, Gaddafi and Assad weren't arseholes.

But many people said that stable, functioning societies under the control of these arseholes, was much more preferable to the horrors that would inevitably be unleashed by violently forcing their deposal.

The arseholes in the West made selected arseholes in the Middle East into Demons in the popular imagination, because it suited their arsehole interests to do so.

That Hussein, Gadaffi and Assad were arseholes has always been true; that they were Demons was (and is) just a myth, deliberately spread by the arseholes in the West in order to gain support for their arsehole decisions.

But now, having destroyed arseholes who were only Demons in the mythical sense, Demons in the very real sense have been unleashed on millions of men, women and children in the Middle East and North Africa.

And those millions of men, women and children never made a decision in their lives, to go and hurt other people.

They are *NOT* arseholes.

And to allow the arseholes who govern our own lives, to continue to treat these poor, innocent wretches as arseholes, makes arseholes of us all.

Stephen Winspear lives in London, and is not a fan of arseholes. He can be contacted at Stephen@1person.com