Afghanistan is a lot like SomeGuy.

We all know that what's going on inside them both is wrong - just wrong. We can all recognise the backwardness, the regression, the reactionary nature that compels senseless and futile hostility against far superior forces.

But if we haven't learned yet that trying to batter them into submission, beat them into seeing that *OUR* way of thinking is clearly superior, is just never going to work... Then maybe we are no better.

It is easy to get distracted by an ill-conceived and ill-founded allegiance to a bogeyman ideology, be that rabid Islamism, or equally rabid Conservatism (neither Islamism or Conservatism are inherently rabid; but certain minority adherents manifest their ideological support that way). But in so being distracted we forget that at the heart of these situations are fiercely proud individuals, every bit as unlikely to surrender to oppressive force and compulsion as we all are.

Forceful and violent efforts on our part to subdue these people, to force them to "See the Light" of civilised beliefs and behaviours, acts counter-productively to justify and legitimise their extreme reactionary conduct in their own minds and their own cultures.

These people have nothing to lose. They are regarded as being at the bottom of the pile of human beings. They can't drop any lower in anybody's estimation, except their own. And the more they endure external aggression that is aimed at changing their beliefs, personalities and culture, the prouder they feel about themselves.

There really is only one method that stands any chance of achieving our doubtlessly noble aims, and that is to set a good example that we would like these people to follow.

We can't in the first instance say that violent oppression of, and assaults on people they disagree with is wrong; and then for our next action assault and violently oppress these same people for not agreeing with us.

It is impossible for us to correctly judge just what the Afghans and SomeGuy would actually be like if left to their own devices, because we, the International and =PBF= Communities have never actually left them to their own devices.

The History of Afghanistan over the last 150 years or so has been one of continual and relentless external interference in their affairs; from the British Empire, through to the Soviet Union, the United States, the Pakistani Intelligence Services that fostered the Taliban, and now currently NATO.

We cannot expect the population and culture of Afghanistan to become something more peaceful and civilised, if the only way we can think of effecting such a change, is by using our own violence against them.

It really is as simple as that.

[face_peace]