Well, I can't say that I'm surprised by your surprise AV... ;)

Look, thing is, we many of us gather here to discuss the Issues of the Day, right? We're passionate about our beliefs and determined in our understanding.

And there's nothing wrong with that. We're carrying on a fine tradition that stretches from the Forums of Ancient Greece, through the Coffee Houses of Regency London, to the themed bars of Boston.

But... We can have a tendency to allow our ideological differences spill out into personal antagonisms; where actually, it is the demonstration of Force of Personality that becomes more important than trying to establish the supremacy of our ideas.

There is absolutely no reason whatsoever why two people with opposing views can't discuss and argue those views, without losing a personal respect for one another.

Whilst it might have taken a few months for us to settle down when we first met (I think I thought he was a common or garden racist when I was first getting to know him), I hope that Foota and I have been able to demonstrate the Truth of that over the years. When we have disagreed on issues - principally the Iraq War and the Bush Presidency - we have always been able to maintain a civility and respect for each other during our dialogue.

You have subtitled yourself a "Classical Liberal", so I'm sure you have read John Stuart Mill's "On Liberty". In that famous tract, Mill goes to great length to establish the vital importance and necessity of opposing views.

[quote][color=blue] But the peculiar evil of silencing the expression of an opinion is, that it is robbing the human race; posterity as well as the existing generation; those who dissent from the opinion, still more than those who hold it. If the opinion is right, they are deprived of the opportunity of exchanging error for truth: if wrong, they lose, what is almost as great a benefit, the clearer perception and livelier impression of truth, produced by its collision with error.[/color][/quote]

The point being that we need the opposing view, every bit as much as we need our own view. The challenge is to oppose ideas without diminishing the holders of opposing ideas. When we find ourselves attacking the person rather than the idea (face-palming..?), or criticising the technicalities of expression (spelling, grammar) instead of addressing the argument, we have to ask ourselves if we would really be better off without that opposing view.

A lot of non-combatants here at =PBF= get justifiably pissed off when debates descend into rancour and hostility, because then it is no longer a cross-examination of ideas but an anthropological attempt to establish Alpha-male dominance. An unedifying spectacle at the best of times, and certainly not the kind of thing you want to be exposed to in a place you come to enjoy yourself.

Another reason to keep things civilised and respectful is because our emotions can often make us see and hear what we would like to or need to see and hear.

With all due respect AV, you do have a tendency towards a monochromatic World view: other people either share and support your opinions; or they are opposed to and seek to thwart your opinions. This Black and White view doesn't leave much room for a middle ground.

I'm sure that Foota will vouch for me when I say that I have *NEVER* voiced an opinion in support of "Big Government" of any variety.

I *DO* support the notion of a World that isn't divided into Nation-states, since I believe that Nationalist Separatism is just an evolved form of primitive tribalism, and is at the root cause of many of Human Society's challenges.

But my support for a One-World Nation is underwritten carefully with an essential caveat that requires decentralisation of Government - even more decentralised than it is under the current National Constituencies.

I have *ALWAYS* been Anti-Statist AV. And whilst my verbose criticisms of Right Wing governments might imply or suggest a support for Left Wing policies, I can assure you that I hold both factions in equal contempt as merely alternative sides of the same coin.

I posted James Bovard's article because it clearly and concisely articulated the views I have held for most of my adult life, about the subordination of the Citizen to the State.

And I'm compelled to say AV that perhaps, if you weren't carrying quite so much personal enmity towards me, you might have realised that sooner. I haven't ever really felt any animosity towards you, and so *HAVE* paid attention to what you've written. And I've been slightly bemused by the fact that whilst there isn't, in fact, a whole lot of difference between us ideologically speaking, you always seem to respond as though I was diametrically opposed to your political beliefs.

Still, hopefully the article and this post might have finally cleared that up. Then I'll know that all we're left with is your personal dislike for me, and I'm comfortable enough with that, if you think it completely necessary. ;)

[face_peace]