[quote=MadCatOmni][color=darkred]Mr.Johnson speaks all over this country, not just in Ohio, as do his many associates. There are several new militia groups right here in Texas that have only recently formed in the last few years, and many more than that across the nation. A great many of the members of these militias are actively serving military and ex-military personell. I've heard some of you guys scoff at the idea of an armed revolution happening in this country again, especially those in Europe and elsewhere, but this is America. Does anyone out there really, for one instance, doubt that only weapons available to us are just pistols, shotguns, and hunting rifles? You've seen some of the videos posted in these very forums of some of the toys we have available to us here, and that was just at the [i]legal[/i] gun ranges. We are, as many here like to joke, quite literaly armed to the teeth. And it really and truly isn't a joke. Our hope is that it won't become an armed conflict, but we're preparing for it nevertheless.

If it does degenerate into an armed conflict it certainly won't be a conventional war, of that you should have no doubt. Those soldiers that got their training in Iraq and Afganistan will be able to impart all the tricks they learned to their new recruits in the militias. There are going to be people in D.C. who will either ignore the warnings or just plain deny they have the substance to be taken seriously. Despite what many of those fools might like to believe, and what many around the world think of the American people, there are a great many of us here who are actually willing to do what is necessary to ensure our freedoms are not infringed upon and that the gov't is truly answerable to the People.[/color][/quote]

I think that it is quite clear from the U.S. Experience in Iraq, that the "Mightiest Military Machine" in History, simply doesn't have any answer to Fourth Generation Warfare (4GW).

I have absolutely no doubt at all that if some Americans chose to mount an insurgency campaign against the U.S. Government, the Government would find it as impossible to defeat that insurgency as it has found it to try and defeat the insurgencies in Iraq and Afghanistan.

However, the flip side to that is, just as the U.S. Government has not been able to defeat the insurgencies in Iraq and Afghanistan; Iraqi and Taliban insurgents are just as incapable of defeating the U.S. Government.

And the same would apply to any armed uprising by the American populace.

Instead, what you would get would be an endless bloody stalemate, which would not only legitimise the Constitutional crimes already committed against the American People by the Bush Administration; but sanction and justify yet further reductions in Civil Liberties.

Indeed, though an armed uprising in America would be unwinnable by either side, in terms of a conventional victory; it would represent a victory of sorts for those in the U.S. Government who already see U.S. Citizens as the [b]*REAL*[/b] Enemy; that is, as the only People actually capable of curtailing the Power of the U.S. Government.

For many of the most Right-Wing and paranoid members of the Government, an armed revolution would be a Godsend. They could fully suspend the Constitution, fully implement Martial Law, and would completely disregard any semblance of Democracy.

You're right MC: the U.S. Government could never defeat an armed insurgency enacted by the more heavily armed and violently inclined members of the American Citizenry.

But the real question is, given that such an armed insurrection would have no chance of defeating the Government either: would the Government actually [b]*WANT*[/b] to defeat an insurgency that would justify and legitimise a complete suspension of Democracy in the U.S?

My advice, as always, would be to go for non-violent resistance, and Evolution, not Revolution.

[face_peace]