In Reply To #16

Most soccer players would die on the gridiron. They might be able to run all fancy and shit but lets see one take a hit from men weighing 230-380 while running full speed into the jaws of the rush.

Careful Mad Cat, you're in danger of confusing me with a soccer fan. :)

Afraid I wasn't designed to play soccer, and besides, they only play soccer in working class schools in the UK. ;-)

No, I'm a Rugby man through and through. I used to play for a club near my home town in a Saturday (highly unprofessional...) league, in various forward positions, and occasionally even as a centre (the "Crash Ball" was my speciality), if I could lay off the smoking for long enough...

No, soccer may well be high art as far as ball sports are concerned, but it's played my nancy-boys who pay more attention to their hair-cuts and salaries, than getting down and dirty with other jock-strap wearing men (i.e. the homosexuality in soccer is less latent than it is in Rugby).

Strategy is America's forte. Anyone can run and kick a ball but not everyone can think strategically. Don't try and claim there's some strategy to soccer, I played 2 years of high school soccer. Run, kick, pass, run, kick, pass, :P.

Yeah, I get the strategy element, and to be honest and IRTT, it's probably the emphasis on strategy that makes the Game inaccessible to "outsiders" to American Football.

Maybe soccer is so popular because the essentials of the Game are so basic: 11 a side; kick or head the ball into the net; uh, that's it.

I would be more interested in American football, if it didn't seem so impenetrable. I'll be buggered if I even know the basic rules. Something to do with having four attempts to run 10 yards, before kicking the ball to some strategically important spot or other..? Is that right..? WTH is going on!?!

In Reply To #29

Why do American Footballers wear body armour?

So you can hit as hard as you want.

We use to have the same equipment as Rugby players, but it was way too dangerous as people hit a lot harder in American football than they do in Rugby.

Rugby players don't really use any equipment - apart from the jockstrap of course, and the occasional padded-cloth helmet to prevent "cauliflower ear". There is a recent trend since the Game went professional to wear lightly-padded Lycra vests, but generally only if you're a girly back.

But isn't the padding worn in American Football a bit like boxing gloves?

There used to be far less injuries in bare-knuckle boxing, because you simply couldn't hit as hard as you can with gloves on, because of the likelihood of breaking your own hand.

It must be kind of chicken-and-egg: American Football players wear armour because the hits are harder; but the hits are only harder because they're all wearing armour.

As Mad Cat said, there's a lot of strategy to it.  You have to think about what your going to do to pick up the yards needed, or what coverage your opponet is going to have.

However, some quarterbacks don't use a huddle.  Peyton Manning and Carson Palmer calls plays from the line (often seeing what the defense has and then calling a play that would be best against it), which means when they have the ball the action doesn't stop.

See, that's what I mean by the strategy making the Game impenetrable to those not raised on it (actually, exactly like cricket...).

What are "plays from the line"? What's a "huddle"? How and why do you "call a play"?

Is there a beginner's guide to American Football available anywhere?

Peace