London, UK here: been a fan of AI since Season 5.

First thing to say is that the quality of talent on American Idol always surpasses the talent on the UK X-Factor. Pretty much anyone who makes it into the Top 12 on AI, would easily win X-Factor outright, in any given year.

Obviously AI has a wider pool of young hopefuls to draw from - the U.S. having 5 or 6 times the population that the U.K. has - but AI hopefuls always seem so much more polished, practiced and prepared than X-Factor auditionees. U.S. contestants, for the most part, also always seem to be more natural performers, and able to connect more easily with the audience than their British counterparts.

And as for the production values of the show itself... Well they blow anything on British TV out of the water. The American Idol final is pretty much the highlight of my Television Year. I always look forward to the guest duets they line up for the finalists and the also-rans.

So that's all the good stuff.

On the downside... It does seem that the purpose of the competition is a little obscure. It is like American Idol is two competitions in one.

The first competition is for musical and particularly vocal talent. The second competition is I guess, the "Idol" bit. It is the competition to identify which of the contestants that a majority of viewers would like to either be, be the partner of, or be the parent of.

And that's the bit that I think we don't really get in the U.K.

Admiring and appreciating someone for their having an amazing talent and incredible ability is one thing; idolising them - for whatever reasons - is something else altogether.

It seems to be much less personal in the U.K. If James, Pia and Casey had been in the top 12 of the X-Factor, the other nine contestants would probably just have quit right at the beginning of the live shows. Of course, technical ability and vocal range isn't the only consideration. Being able to deliver a song with emotional sincerity and idiosyncratic versatility are at least as important. As best as I can tell, James and Casey, and to only a slightly less extent Pia ticked all those boxes.

But were they appropriate material for idolatry?

Apparently not.

It does seem that from the results of the last few seasons of American Idol, the eventual winner is usually the one with the more bland personality. Anyone with a spark of individuality, or a hint that they won't allow themselves to be moulded and shaped to fit a marketing or media manager's idea of who they should be, will always lose out to someone whose profile and persona can be manipulated and manufactured.

That might sound a bit pejorative. I don't really mean it to. If certain demographic sections of the (U.S.) population want to watch and vote for someone whom they can idolise (for 12 months, until the next idol drops off the production line), then that's fine. Who's to stop them? Particularly when fulfilling their desires is so financially lucrative...

It is just a shame that the "Competition To Find Someone To Idolise", has to run concurrently and convergently with the "Competition To Find An Outstanding Singer & Musician".

I do think that American Idol needed Simon Cowell more than anyone perhaps realised. Simon was very effective at keeping the contestants grounded. Randy has tried to fill Simon's shoes, with more pointed and occasionally harsh criticism; but he doesn't seem to have Simon's intellect or understanding of the realities of the situation.

I think if Simon had still been a judge this season, he would have challenged Scotty more than he has been. I had great hopes for Jimmy Iovine in the early part of the season; but I get the sense that his input has been restricted to pre-recorded segments so that some of his harsher and more practical comments could be tuned out.

It is a shame then that the contestants with the most talent, colour and bite have been tossed out in favour of more homogenised and blandish fare. But I think that is inevitable, given that voting is carried out purely on the basis of popularity.

I'm not sure that there is an alternative method of weekly selection that could work practically or effectively. I think I would rather see the singing/talent competition separated from the competition to be an "Idol". And perhaps that separate (actual) talent competition could be judged week-on-week by an expanded panel of say 12 credible artists, producers, music reviewers &c. With perhaps a public vote between the top three at the final.

I'm not sure that American Idol can go on as it has, particularly with Simon Cowell's X-Factor about to ramp up the competition in the U.S.

Peace