And The Meek Must Inherit the Earth

Applying the "10-80-10 Rule" to the World

In Management and Leadership Consultancy there is a concept known as the "10-80-10 Rule".

The "Rule" can be applied to any group of human beings engaged in a collective endeavour, be it running a business, a charity or not-for-profit organisation, or a sports team or social club. It generally applies to groups of 10 people or more (to save slicing any whole bodies up in order to achieve the correct percentages...).

These groups are observed in order to identify their attitudes, emotions, performance, productivity and participatory talents.

The "10-80-10 Rule" predicts what will be observed:

10% of the group will be... "Negative".

These are those people who do not really come up to the standards we would like to see in our fellow human beings. They can be quite self-centred, quite egotistical, and often narcissistic. They often require or demand a lot of attention from their colleagues, subordinates and superiors; attention which is out of all proportion to their own performance and productivity. They can be very critical, demeaning and frequently hostile towards their colleagues, despite having little to commend their own personal behaviour.

Above all else, they are frequently obstructive, cynical and disruptive towards the stated aims of the group as a whole. Far from making any positive contribution towards the group's goals, progress towards those goals would actually be improved simply by the absence of this "Negative 10%".

Then we can observe the "Positive 10%".

These are the optimistic, energetic, inspired and inspiring people in our groups. These are the ones who, no matter how low our energy may be at the start of the day, will lift us out of the doldrums with their enthusiasm, vitality and encouragement.

They will do whatever it takes, whenever it is required, to help the rest of the group achieve its stated goals. They exude a sense of personal fulfilment that is infectious. They dissipate cynicism with their bright, idealist approach to everything and anything they do. And they are usually a lot of fun to be around!

Then there are the "Middle 80%".

Here's everybody else. They come to work every day, they do their job, and they go home. They are engaged with the group's activity, they are participating, they are fulfilling the requirements of their assignments. You don't often hear them complain, though they might occasionally express mild sympathy with the complaints relentlessly pouring forth from the "Negative 10%"; but this usually only because to not express some form of sympathy, would make them a target for the Negative-10-Percenters! They also rarely qualify to be part of the "Positive 10%", though not because they do not agree with the group's goals, but simply because they lack the confidence to express their support and enthusiasm publicly.

They don't claim to know enough about everything to be either overly critical, or too enthusiastically supportive. But they are always quietly confident in the performance of their own duties. They're not easily observed, because they usually let the "Negative-" and "Positive-" 10-Percenters have the running in Group Meetings. But you soon notice their absence if they are ever not there, quietly getting on with the job at hand.

The "Middle 80%" neither require nor demand much attention, from anyone really. They are perhaps not doing exactly what they hoped they would be doing with their lives, when their primary school teachers once asked them about their ambitions in life. But they are generally resolved to their lot in life, happy to get on with things, without making a fuss.

(I hope none of this sounds too unfamiliar..!)

Now here we have our World: our Human World.

We are it seems, engaged in a Collective Endeavour. We seven-and-a-half billion (and counting) human beings are, what... Trying to build a Better World? Trying to make our World a Better Place? A place fit for our children?

Well, History tends to illustrate a general tilt towards progress, with only the occasional set-backs, so that seems to suggest a general desire for improvement.

So who have we got on the Team?

Our "Leadership"... Our "Elected" Officials... Our Presidents, our Prime Ministers, our Kings and our Queens... Our Emperors and our Dictators...

Where would they fit in our "10-80-10 Rule"?

Well, they do all seem to like a Crisis. They do all seem to come into their own when there is an "Enemy" to be hunted down and destroyed. They always seem to be telling us that they are trying to do a lot, with very little. They ask us to accept their Wars, their Austerity Measures, their restrictions on our Freedoms. There is always some pressing problem that needs resolving. They always seem to be in "Survival Mode".

Though in all fairness and objectivity, it might be pointed out that those pressing problems they keep telling us need dealing with, do often seem to be the consequence of a previous "solution" they applied to an earlier problem... (Just saying...)

Our "Leaders" are quite high maintenance too. They demand a lot of attention, a lot of recognition for their efforts. We are often asked to reward them, if not exactly for permanently resolving a particular issue, then for the sterling effort and personal contribution they each made to try and resolve those problems. Of course, if questioned about why they always seem to be so defensive, if asked why they need to travel everywhere surrounded by their own private protection force, the response is usually that the fact they are so disliked and despised, simply demonstrates that they are making "difficult" (unpopular) but "necessary" (hard)  choices. That those choices are interim measures, which may look reactionary and regressive, self-serving and counter-productive, are in fact necessary steps in an as-yet unrevealed Master Plan that will deliver some sort of beneficial outcome, eventually...

Or something along those lines.

But do all our Presidents, Prime Ministers, Monarchs and Dictators make up 10% of Humanity..?

No... (As if they would tolerate such a lack of exclusivity in their positions.)

So what about all of their courtiers? What about all those people who sit at those tables in the Palaces of the Mighty? What about all those Financiers, Industrialists, Military Advisors, Media Barons, and all the other pilot fish that clean the teeth of these sharks? What about all of their hangers-on?

What about all those people a bit closer to Home, who have wedded themselves to the status quo? Those people in our own lives who insist that our Leaders are "On the Right Path", who lead the cheers for all of those difficult decisions made? Those people who consume and absorb without question the Party Line, and act as Commissars within their own social circles? Who insist (for example) that another Biblical Slaughter of the Innocents in Palestine is an unfortunate but necessary requirement for the maintenance and development of the Established Order?

Forget your professional or charitable organisations now, just look within your own Social Circle. If you and nine friends are sitting at a dinner table, does the "10-80-10 Rule" apply there?

Will there be one person speaking about the need to support the Finance Capitalists through this difficult period in Humanity's Economic Condition? Will there be one person arguing the case for Israel's behaviour towards the Palestinians? Will there be one person advocating for "The West" to stand up to the proto-Hitler who is the current President of Russia? Will there be one person insisting that Anthropogenic Climate Change is all a hoax-story?

Will it be the same person?

But will there also be one person who is questioning why the Bankers' recklessness should really be underwritten by tax-payers? Tax-payers who, for the most part, have no idea what risks they are supposed to be underwriting. Will there be one person who is speaking with compassion, sensitivity and Humanity about the plight of Palestinian innocents? Will there be one person questioning the "Received Wisdom" about the situation in Ukraine? Will there be one person pointing out how obvious it is that Human activity must be negatively effecting the Earth's Environment?

Will that be the same person?

And what of the other eight dinner party guests?

Will they be politely listening? Will they be admitting that they do not fully understand the situations being discussed? Will they say that, what with one thing and another, they don't always have the time to keep up with current affairs? Will they say that they try to listen, try to do their bit, but that there is just so much to think about, it is difficult to take it all in? Would they rather the conversation moved onto less contentious topics? Perhaps about what a wonderful meal everyone has just enjoyed, and how nice it is to see everyone again?

The "Negative-10-Percenters" of the World really do have the numbers to make up their full decile. They may not all be sitting in Seats of Power around the World, but they have certainly made up their minds to support those who are.

But take heart, because the World also has its "Positive-10-Percenters": the "dissident" intellectuals, the political activists, the people unafraid to speak Truth to Power. There are Popular Movements all over the World being led by those for whom The Truth is not a malleable commodity, but an objective Reality. They valiantly and persistently seek out that Truth, and they communicate it to the Rest of the World in a way that exposes the propaganda of the "Negative-10-Percenters" in all its baseless, dishonest and insubstantial misery. They are our counter-punchers.

They remind us what we are capable of doing as individuals and as a Collective. They give us the information, the intelligence and the inspiration to resist the depredations of the World's Power-Elites. They keep their Faith in Humanity, and they help us keep Faith with ourselves.

They give us Hope.

And we are the "Middle-80-Percenters" of the World.

What We want is very simple: we want Peace.

We want to enjoy our humble lives. We are not looking for power, glory or even recognition. We just want to enjoy the time we have with our families, with our parents, our brother and sisters, and especially with our children.

We want to know that our safety and our security does not come at the expense of anybody else's safety and security. We want to know that our comfort and our prosperity does not come at the price of somebody else's comfort and prosperity. We do not want our own children's enjoyment of Life to come at the cost of another child's Life. We do not want the amenities and facilities we use in our lives today, to prohibit our children and our grandchildren utilising the same advantages when it is their turn to take responsibility for our Planet.

Now we do not claim to know how best to ensure our safety and security. It does seem logical that if we are not proactively killing other people's children, those people are unlikely to feel any need or desire to kill our children. It seems obvious that we can't really be comfortable and prosperous, if that is only a temporary and short-term state of affairs. But quite how a Global Economy is supposed to run, or how one goes about resolving seemingly intractable political and ethnic conflicts, or how exactly an industrialised species is supposed to exist in sustainable harmony with the Environment in which it exists, is not something that any one of us would admit to knowing.

Given a few pointers in the right direction though, we are certainly willing to try whatever is determined to be the best approach. There are a lot of us, and we are for the most part, all willing to make our own contributions, in our own ways.

I guess our main problem though - us "Middle-80-Percenters" - is that because none of us can claim to know all the answers to everything, we aren't really confident in getting into any arguments with the World's "Negative-10-Percenters". They are quite a hostile bunch, often quite aggressive. It is usually easier just to agree with them, and make small displays of support, rather than directly challenge any of their proclamations and assertions.

And as far as the "Positive-10-Percenters" go... Well, they are certainly very inspiring and encouraging to listen to. But frankly, the amount of stuff they seem to know about, the amount of information they can speak authoritatively about, the boundless energy they seem to possess... Well, it can be a little bit intimidating at times.

As much as the "Negative-10-Percenters" tend to dismiss us as "naïve", "ill-informed" or "unrealistic", the "Positive-10-Percenters" do tend (and we're not criticising here) to assume that we are all capable of receiving and comprehending all of the vast amounts of information they possess, and expressing the same kind of energy and activism that they do.

Whilst they (the "Positive-10-Percenters") certainly make us feel like we are capable of anything when we are in their presence, or listening to them, or reading their work... By the time we've gotten back to our work, our families and our day-to-day lives, it is not always easy to retain those same levels of inspiration and optimism.

What we suppose really needs saying (and again, just a suggestion, not a criticism...) is this:

If the "Positive-10-Percenters" could perhaps spend a little less of their time and energy trying to persuade and convince the "Negative-10-Percenters" to change their attitudes about things, and a bit more time helping us "Middle-80-Percenters" get our heads around what really needs doing, we are only too willing to learn and then help where we can.

The thing is, the "Negative-10-Percenters" are pretty much set in their ways. There isn't really a lot of mileage in trying to change their minds about things: they seem to have too completely identified themselves with the policies and ideologies they support. Trying to change their attitudes about things, is received as an attempt to change who they fundamentally are as individuals.

You can explain and illustrate why they have got the wrong end of the stick until you are blue in the face... But it is usually a lot less time and energy consuming to just make them think you agree with them, and then get on with whatever it is you were doing.

Now we "Middle-80-Percenters" do very much get the sense that all of the information we receive from the "Negative-10-Percenters" is baseless propaganda and outright lies... But it isn't always easy to confront or challenge them on this. We've tried repeating some of the information we've picked up from Social Media, and certainly with regards to the latest atrocities being committed in Palestine, this does appear to have some retarding effect. But that is just one of the many situations that are so obviously wrong in the World. When it comes to situations like the Economy and the Environment... Well, that's a lot to try and get your head around.

If you "Positive-10-Percenters" could spend a little less of your obviously valuable time and energy trying to get the "Negative-10-Percenters" to see sense, and just a little bit more time and energy helping us "Middle-80-Percenters" to understand how we can each help to resolve our Society's issues... And/or perhaps rather than expending your incredible intellects trying to neutralise the propaganda at its source, instead help those of us on the receiving end to see through it...

You "Positive-10-Percenters" do a fantastic job of challenging the "Negative-10-Percenters". But the thing is, the "Negative-10-Percenters" tend to avoid you "Positive-10-Percenters" if they can, and instead focus on bullying us "Middle-80-Percenters" into going along with them.

If you could perhaps more directly communicate with us, at the same time (obviously) as you continue to expose the "Negative-10-Percenters" obstructiveness and disruptiveness...

Well, perhaps then we can lend our not inconsiderable numbers to support your valiant and inspiring aims and activities.

After all, it is very clear to us all who you are really trying to help. If we can in any way help you to help us, we are only too willing.

We just thought we ought to mention that. But obviously: you know best.

Stephen Winspear is a "Middle-80-Percenter", living in London, and can be reached at: Stephen@1person.com