In Reply To #144

In Reply To #142

Construct a rational case for me that supports your idea that anti-Bush-Administration-ism is the same as Anti-Americanism.

In your case, it is very easy.  You still want to try Clinton for war crimes for using NATO bombs to end the genocide in the Balkans. If you think Clinton is "war-criminal" for his actions in the Balkans, it is hard to think of any US President that you would support. If it were not Bush, you would have another American "imperial war-monger" to obsess about with your pseudo-Marxist/Pacifist world-view.

It is anti-Americanism to ignore the rest of the world and only criticize American policy.

No, it is anti-Bush-Administration-ism to only criticise Bush Administration policy.

See what you did there Foota? I've got you bang to rights, because really, YOU KNOW how unrepresentative the Bush Administration (and your) views are of America and Americans. And so you rather clumsily avoid answering my challenge, by throwing up some silly little ad hominem charge.

Though who am I to avoid a challenge? I secretly hope that if I keep picking up your gauntlets, one day you'll pick up one of mine... Anyhoo, here we go:

President George W. Bush - Undoubted War Criminal

President B. J. Clinton - War Criminal

President George H. W. Bush - War Criminal

President Ronald Reagan - War Criminal

President Jimmy Carter - NOT a War Criminal

President Gerald Ford - NOT a War Criminal

President Richard Nixon - Obviously a War Criminal

President Lyndon B. Johnson - Hah! Well d'uh!

President John F. Kennedy - Afraid so.

President Dwight D. Eisenhower - Not in a million years

President Harry S. Truman - Ask the residents of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Oh, I'm sorry, I forgot, you can't...

Not really much point going back any further than Truman, because no President before  Roosevelt was really in a position to commit the kind of War Crimes their descendants managed. Would have to pass the, uh, flame to the British and Germans before that.

But yes, Winston Churchill was definitely a War Criminal.

And it's nothing to do with your silly little labels Foota. It's much simpler even than those:

There are certain acts that are called War Crimes; if you commit them, or cause them to be committed, then you are a War Criminal. No unpopular or discredited political ideologies necessary to make the assessment, just an objective view of the facts.

BTW - nice bit of paternalism - claiming that the ME was fine and dandy (even improving) until the Americans (Brits, Spanish, Poles, Japanese, Danes.......) reversed decades long minority Sunni rule in Iraq in favor of the majority Shia and Kurds.

Yup, gotta Love them Shia, eh Foota? But... Hold on... Aren't Shia Iraqis supported by Iran... Damn!

Anyway, see what you did this time? I credited the Bush Administration with turning Mesopotamia into the Garden of Un-Earthly Delights; and you credit me with "claiming that the Middle East was fine and dandy (even improving)..." (And waste more breathing time with an attempt to give the "Coalition of the Willing" any degree of credibility.)

I don't remember the progressives in Europe making similar arguments against pressuring South Africa to end Apartheid fearing that the White Afrikaners would respond in an orgy of beheadings and suicide bombs.

Why is representative rule good for South Africans (and the majority of the world) but not the Iraqis?

What the fuck are you talking about now?

I suspect because you find the whole Iraq enterprise tainted by American involvement.  Hence anti-Americanism....

Again... No...

I find the whole Iraq enterprise tainted by BUSH ADMINISTRATION INVOLVEMENT.

Hence: Anti-Bush-Administration-ism.

There.

Now tell me why criticism of the policies of the Bush Administration equates to Anti-Americanism.

You DO know that the Bush Administration is at least as unpopular within the United States of America as it is in the Rest of the World, don't you Foota?

In Reply To #145

In Reply To #140

Hell, the Rest of the World even has its own flag now. And it's exactly the same as the flag of the United States... ...Except that it's on fire. :)

Thats real clever, but don't say shit like that and then act all shocked if someone thinks you are talking about anti-americanism.

 You say that and then one post later you're lecturing about the "distinction between anti-american, and anti-bush-administration"

 But you are the intellectually honest one. Yeah.

Oh c'mon. The crack about the Rest of the World's flag being the Stars and Stripes in flames is comedy gold! (And incidentally, copyright Rob Newman...)

And follow the flow of the conversation Vax. Foota was rambling about Anti-Americanism uniting the Rest of the World, and I merely pointed out that criticism of the Bush Administration is no more anti-American than criticism of the Israeli Government is anti-semitic.

Maybe you can help Foota out Vax.

Can YOU explain why criticism of the Bush Administration's policies and actions is anti-American?

And don't look to me for any kind of yard-stick for anti-Bush-Administration-ism. Foota is half-right: I'm anti-politician and I'm anti-Nationalist, so yes I am going to find more or less any action carried out by a politician in the name of Nationalism utterly abhorrent.

Peace