I think we've got to be careful not to throw the baby out with the bathwater here.

The bathwater in this case being a xenophobic, isolationalist ideology that has been wholly anachronistic ever since the Romans colonised Brittania in the 1st Century C.E.

I always chuckle when British Right-Wingers proclaim their Anglo-Saxon heritage. I think, oh, so you're proud that you are of mixed Belgian & German heritage are you?

Straight-faced Xenophobic Nationalism is always going to be a tricky business if you live on an island, particularly one that has been invaded and colonised as often as this Sceptred Isle has.

And as for the so-called racist-nationalists such as the Ku Klux Klan, who live in European Colonies, having decimated and displaced the indigenous population, all you can really say is: Ahhh, Bless...

And that's really the point about all this "Far-Right" bathwater: it's not dangerous; it isn't a threat to our Way of Life (whatever that currently is); it's not even a threat to our children's social development - kids today are just too cool and smart to get involved with anything that silly.

Xenophobia is actually just an entirely natural part of any Human Culture. There will always be a fringe element in any Society who are convinced of their own Racial Superiority, whilst at the same time - and in quite a glaring contradiction - being equally convinced of the threat posed to their "superiority" by allegedly *INFERIOR* races.

This is why Right-Wingers always seem so bad-tempered and quick to violence (and mostly male too...). It takes huge amounts of negative emotional energy to sustain a belief in an ideology so obviously self-contradictory, and for that matter, so intellectually bereft.

So I don't feel that Society has anything to fear from giving the "Far-Right" air-time. On the contrary, I think they should be allowed to have their own television station if they want to (if they can fund it privately, of course).

I think they're funny. I'd probably tune in every now and then.

After all, I always used to laugh at Alf Garnett - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alf_Garnett .

The "Baby" in this whole bathwater-disposal analogy is of course our fundamental recognition of the precepts of Democracy and Free Speech.

It is too easy to get emotionally exercised about ideologies that the general social consensus finds abhorrent and repugnant.

It's like we get a free-pass to be as voluble, negative and ugly as the ideologies and ideologues we are collectively despising.

For the most part, we are all fairly moderate, if not in our views, then in how we express them. You know, we are passionate and convicted and all that about our own beliefs, and we are even prepared to treat as somewhat reasonable the views of our ideological opposition.

But as soon as the "Far-Right" or "Far-Left" pop up to caricature themselves in the political sphere, all of a sudden we ourselves turn into foaming demagogues, relishing the opportunity to dismiss, decry and denigrate those ideas and policies we all know to be as extreme as they are hopelessly unfeasible.

And that's where things start to get *REALLY* ugly.

The "Far-Right" know they are ugly. We know they are ugly. There is not really any problem with their ugliness. It is clear and plain for all to see, and the Far-Right (and Far-Left too) are happy to adopt the mantle of "Most Ugly", because it gives them a defined seat at the political table, albeit as irrelevant book-ends.

But do those not at the extreme ends of the political spectrum realise how ugly they look, when they are kicking up a huge fuss to point out the bleeding obvious (that extremist ideologies are ugly)?

This from today's Independent:

[quote][color=red]Martin Smith, the Unite Against Fascism organiser, who directed protesters to the gate at Television Centre through which many surged, had vowed to resist police attempts to break up the demonstration and insisted it was essentially peaceful. But he did admit that one far-right supporter had been attacked earlier in the afternoon. "A guy came with a BNP banner. That was ripped from him and he was hit on the head, but you have to expect that if you come to an anti-fascist demonstration with a BNP banner," said Mr Smith.[/color][/quote]

The obvious point is that it wasn't an "anti-fascist demonstration" that drew everyone there, but rather one man (and a handful of his supporters) representing a pro-fascist ideology.

The perhaps less obvious point is that in excusing and justifying the violence targeted at the BNP supporter, Mr. Martin Smith demonstrated no greater a grasp of social morality and the democratic process, than your average Fascist does.

In summary then, I think Nick Griffin not only looks very similar to Family Guy's Peter Griffin, he also makes about as much sense. He is certainly as funny to listen too.

It's important to remember that Nick Griffin is the most intelligent, articulate and urbane member that the British National Party has. Comparing him to Hitler is to hugely misunderstand Hitler's intellect and charisma.

Recognising him for what he is, and what the prospective fortunes of his political party are under his leadership should put all of our minds at rest.

Recognising our own propensity for ugly bigotry, when we get given a free hatred-pass by the Media, is altogether more important work.

[face_peace]