I think that anti-Semitism is the apotheosis of Racism.

It's possible to argue that Judaism is a religion and not a race, therefore anti-Semitism has nothing to do with racism, particularly as there are many non-Jewish Semitic people.

But since when has Racism had any intellectual or rational basis?

No, we're really talking about xenophobia here - an irrational fear of those or that which are different from ourselves. And if standard, right-wing Racism is the common-or-garden variety version of racism, then anti-Semitism (or anti-Judaism) is xenophobia in its most extreme and critical form.

It is very important to understand that it is actually nothing personal against the Jews. They just happen, more by tradition and custom than anything else, to have become the cultural society at the focus of extreme xenophobia. It could quite easily have been any other definable group - there's nothing remarkable or distinct about Jewish people.

But because the Jews did and have become the touchstone group for all xenophobics, then hating Jews is what all casual racists must eventually aspire to, when they cross the event horizon into full-blown xenophobes.

Again, it has to be emphasised that the issue lies here with the xenophobes, not with the Jews.

What's a good analogy?

If you like guitar music, then you might like Bryan Adams.

But if you [b][i]really[/i][/b] like guitar music, then you [i]have[/i] to like Jimmy Page or Ritchie Blackmore.

If you're mildly or casually contemptuous of foreigners, then you might like to rip on the French.

But if you want to be taken seriously as a racist, then you've got to hate the fucking Jews.

And that's the real issue here with anti-Semitism/anti-Jewishness.

Yes, Foota and others are being xenophobic and racist when they use the term Muslim as a synonym for some evil, fearsome threat against their lives.

Actually, there are more than 1 billion Muslims on the Planet, and only a very small handful have managed to kill no more than a few thousand Westerners. By contrast, there are only 300 million Americans, but in the last sixty years or so, those Americans have racked up a body-count of foreigners that is well over 5 million. Equally, more than 20,000 Americans are murdered every year by other Americans, and that's more than all the Americans murdered by "Muslims" since World War Two.

So characterising or representing the 1 billion followers of a single religion as a threat to be feared, is xenophobic.

However...

It's only a lesser-spotted variety of xenophobia. It's mostly driven by propaganda and an emotional response to 9/11, and has much the same conviction and manifestation as the xenophobia about Communists and "Reds" that was prevalent in the U.S. during the Cold War. Ultimately, it is less about a racist attitude towards Muslims, than it is about a nationalistic and hyper-patriotic attitude towards being American.

Anti-Semitism, on the other hand, is something altogether more insidious and pathological.

Whatever else the Jewish people may have done in their enormously long cultural History, and whatever attributes and characteristics may or may not be fairly ascribed to them (and you can put *ANY* single group or culture under the microscope and find them wanting, if you are so disposed), what cannot be ignored is what has been *DONE TO* the Jewish people throughout their History.

And what has been done *TO* Jewish people throughout History, has been done primarily because xenophobes have wanted to find a scapegoat to blame their own Society's shortcomings on, and Jews have become - like I said, by tradition and custom - the People who can be and are blamed for just about everything.

It is hatred at its most self-perpetuating, it really is.

The question that perpetuates it is even evident in this thread: "So why *ARE* the Jews always being picked on?"

The implication is that the Jews have suffered *SO* much, they *MUST* have done something to deserve it.

It never occurs that actually, an irrational fear of that which we don't understand - xenophobia - is a fundamental characteristic of the Human Condition.

The real question is not why are Jews always being picked on, but why do groups of Humans always look for [i]someone else[/i] to pick on?

And the answer to that is one that we are all familiar with, because we learn it in the playground and at our places of work:

Because all the time that [i]someone else[/i] is being picked on, nobody is picking on us.

That's all there is to it.

[face_peace]