Hey Foota,

Nice to hear from you!

Hope you and yours are well too, best wishes to all you Love for a happy and prosperous New Year too.

Apologies for not responding sooner, but my weekends are increasingly spent away from the PC, and it's only when I'm supposed to be working hard at the office that I can rationalise enough excuses to write..!

Thanks for sending me the article too, which I've just finished reading during my lunch-break. It is a well written and broadly objective analysis of the situation, and I'm rather afraid that the author has got it more or less on the button: Anti-Americanism is probably the single, most unifying political "ideology" there is in Europe at the moment.

And just as the author describes, whilst Anti-Americanism has sharply and significantly increased since the U.S. began preparing to invade Iraq (recall that in the aftermath of 9/11, Anti-Americanism was all but wiped out in a massive show of sympathy for America), there has always been a strong element of Anti-Americanism amongst the Chattering Classes, particularly those who chose to interest themselves in America's role and behaviour in the Global Village.

Now, following 5 years of the Bush Administration's bellicose and UNILATERAL foreign policy delivery, Anti-Americanism is pretty much a requirement for any serious political observer to have their comments taken seriously.

This raises two serious questions, the first of which was partially addressed by the author of the essay you sent, "WHY is America so despised?", and the second wasn't addressed at all in the essay, "Does the United States need to concern itself or do anything about this, and if so, what?".

Now, before I get into those Foota, let me first quickly describe the framework within which I almost always address the International Situation on our Planet, as I suspect I'll go off on one (two, three, four...), and it might help you to understand the perspective I use.

Obviously I'm not a Nationalist, you know that. I also see the Human Race as, uh, a single Race. It's for this reason that I don't believe Racism exists - we're all the same Race: Human - but I do believe and observe a tremendous amount of Tribalism (Nationalism just being the most contemporary derivative of that millennia-old meme).

Within each of Humanity's Tribes/Nations, there is a diverse, multifarious and dynamic mixture of opinions and ideologies. No-one thinks the same things, just because they share a Nationality or Tribe. For example, there are U.S. natives whose contempt for the Bush Administration far outweighs anything you'd find in Europe, based as it is on a much closer observation and understanding of American politics. And there are Europeans whose support for the Bush Administration and its policies are at least as fervent as any American's.

So, to discuss the International Situation, particularly Nationalist and Anti-[Insert Nation of Choice]-ism, we need to generalise/imagine that whole Nations speak with a single, unified voice.

And with that caveat in place, we can address the question: why is America so despised [at least in Europe]?

Putting aside the rise in Anti-Americanism over the last five years (I'm sure I'll get back to that... ;-)), the first thing that leaps to my mind, is another question:

Does "America" think it is better than any other Nation?

Do Americans think that their country is better by far, than any other country/Nation/Society on the Planet?

The answer is yes, of course. That's the whole idea behind America, it's the mantra that Americans constantly repeat: "We Americans are better than Everyone Else; and our Nation is the best damn Nation in the Whole World".

Of course, other Foreign Nationalists believe the same thing about their country, including European Nationalists. But unlike America, Nationalism isn't anywhere near as prevalent in European culture. It certainly isn't a constantly rehearsed and proclaimed mantra, in the same way that it is in the United States. Ask yourself honestly Foota, can you remember the last day in your life as an American, when you didn't hear at least one fellow American announcing how the United States was/is the best damned country in the World?

If you don't hear it spoken at least once every day, then you see the Stars and Stripes proudly displayed from so many homes and office buildings, that not hearing it wouldn't make much of a difference. By contrast, the Union Jack isn't even displayed in British Courts of Justice or Police Stations.

Now I'm not criticising America's Hyper-Nationalism/Patriotism - it's American's cultural and social choices to place patriotism above all else - I'm just observing that there is a significant difference between American Nationalism and certainly the degrees of Nationalism displayed in European countries.

If anything, Nationalism in Europe is so closely associated with the extreme Right-Wing, that politicians, social commentators and political activists have to be very cautious about how clearly and loudly they advertise their Nationalist credentials. In the United States, the situation is the reverse: any politician not pushing his or her Nationalist credentials to the fore, would never get off the starting blocks.

Inextricably linked with the required displays of Nationalism in the United States, is the cultural imperative to believe that America is the "Greatest Nation on Earth". This belief is endemic, and repeated so frequently and ubiquitously, a psychologist like myself can't help but consider that it sounds an awful lot like reinforcement... ;-) But that aside, concomitant with American's belief that their country is the "Greatest Nation on Earth", is the belief that ALL OTHER COUNTRIES in the World, are in some way LESS than America.

So the question has to be: how long does America/do Americans believe it/they can keep telling the Rest of the World that it/they are better, before the Rest of the World gets pissed off with America/Americans?

Distil America down to a single individual in a Community, say a Community like =PBF=. Let's say you are the person that IS the United States of America, and every other Nation of the World is represented by just one other member of the =PBF= Community. Now how "Anti-Foota" do you suppose everyone else would become, if all you appeared to be doing, is constantly telling them that you were better than them?

Now prior to World War Two, as you know, the United States was "just another country", nothing remarkable about it, and nothing to distinguish it from other European Colonial Nations like Canada, Australia and New Zealand. In 1939, the United States had something like the 19th most powerful military capability in the World, quite a way behind the "Great" major European and Asian powers. But by the end of that War, the United States stood more or less alone (Canada was still little more than an extension of the British Empire) as the only Nation not to have suffered the ravages of that exhausting and debilitating conflict.

More than that, the United States profited very, VERY handsomely from the War. In a few short years, it became one of just two military Superpowers, and by far and undoubtedly, the richest nation on Earth. And whilst European nations were going through the post-War austerity years, America was whooping it up in its Golden Age, accompanied incessantly by the theme that America was (and is) "The Greatest Nation in the World!"

So you know, before we even get into America's actual Foreign Policy actions in its relationship with the Rest of the World, we have a pretty strong case for America's/Americans' complete lack of humility and sensitivity being one of, if not THE root cause of a lot of hostility towards the United States.

It isn't the Rest of the World that that wants to put America down; it's America that keeps putting itself UP, above and over anyone not "fortunate enough" to have been born in the United States.

As far as America's Foreign Policy actions go, well, you know well my position on much of those, so I don't need to labour the point here. Suffice to say that whilst nothing the United States Government has done in the last sixty years is wholly different from or more reprehensible than any or many other National Governments, currently and throughout History; the fact that its actions have been carried out in the more connected and more visible Modern World of Mass Media Communications, coupled with America's almost complete lack of humility and grace, has, in my opinion, caused America and Americans to suffer more greatly, the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, and the reprehension of the Civilised World.

Truly, the United States is a victim of its own successes.

Now the second question then is what, if anything, should the United States do about the fact that it is held in such low esteem by more or less the entirety of the Rest of the World?

Since the fall of Communism in Eastern Europe, the United States has undoubtedly become the most militaristic of all Nations on Earth. It isn't that America is the most bellicose Nation on Earth (though it must be a strong contender), but that its facility and capacity to wage War means that militarily, it puts all other Nations in the shade.

This, uh, "compliments" the lack of humility in the "America the Greatest... etc." mantra, in that just as American's single greatest source of pride (living in the 'Greatest' country) translates as the biggest source of hostility towards it (other nationalities don't like being told they live in 'lesser' countries); the American pride in being "The World's Sole Superpower" translates in other societies as disdain for America being "The World's Biggest Bully". Why does America need its "Superpower" status at all, if there is no other comparable nation to threaten it?

Simply, there is no challenge that the United States faces in its co-existence with the Rest of the (non-American) World that can be resolved by America using its military capability.

The problem of International Terrorism (stemming from ANY ideology) is not a problem with an overt or conventional military solution. Iraq is the proof of that. Whatever else can or may be said about the disaster in Iraq, it has to be observed that "The World's Sole Superpower" has been thwarted, militarily, and fought to a standstill, by a (relative) handful of lightly armed guerrillas.

Who'd have thought it?

Just as Israel lost the deterrent capability of its reputation for overwhelming and irresistible military response to incursion in last summer's conflict with Hizbullah, so too has the idea of the United States as an insurmountable military power been confounded by the current quagmire it finds itself in, in Iraq. Even if ALL the objectives of the Neo-Con mission in Iraq were suddenly achieved in Iraq tomorrow, the damage to America's reputation for being able to do whatever it wants, wherever it wants, is irreparable and arguably fatal.

At some point - and hopefully before it is too late - America has to wake up to the fact that it has lost the battle for the "Hearts and Minds" of the Rest of the World. Its reputation as a decent, honourable and noble Society has been shattered by the actions of the Bush Administration.

Americans like yourself may see the Anti-American sentiment so prevalent in the Rest of the World as unfair, erroneous, possibly even ungrateful. But sooner or later, America is going to have to ask itself whether or not it wants to address that sentiment, whether or not it wants to begin to think about rebuilding that reputation.

America and Americans have to get past this notion of trying to convince the Rest of the World that America is needed by it, and start considering whether the Rest of the World feels like it needs America.

Sure, the United States is not threatened physically/militarily by probably even the Rest of the World combined (as you know, the U.S. spends more on its military than the Rest of the World combined). But America's military dominance rests on its economic might. And economics is a relative science, particularly in this day and age of fiat currencies that don't have a precious commodity to act as a Global standard.

It may well be that non-Americans' opinions of America is unfair and undeserved, but isn't that how any individual within a Community feels when they earn the reprobation of their peers?

America can continue to blame the Rest of the World for not liking it, but that kind of petulance is NOT going to improve the situation, it can and will only contribute to its deterioration.

I'm NOT Anti-American Foota. I'm not a Nationalist, so I don't distinguish between human beings, or groups/tribes of human beings, based on some abstract notion of nationality. I don't want to see America fail, either as a discrete human culture, or as the single best experiment in Human social construction in History.

I do not have an irrational hatred of America or all things American. Believe me, I sincerely want to see the United States succeed as a guiding beacon for the integration of all Human Beings, regardless of race (tribe), creed or colour. I spend much of my spare time (and not-so-spare time...) trying to plead with Americans like yourself, to pull itself back from the brink of the abyss.

Given the current challenges faced by the World - and the greatest by far is the challenge to create an Environmentally sustainable and harmonious Human Society - as far as I'm concerned, if America fails, Humanity fails. There simply isn't any Time left for another Society to have a go at bringing our Race together, if the U.S. fails.

America is trying, ostensibly and apparently, to fix the problems of the Rest of the World, particularly in the most regressive and backwards places on Earth.

The Middle East is a Hell on Earth, it is The Abyss. But the United States has problems of its own at Home. Fixing those problems, in the unabashed and open way that Americans approach all problems is the REAL way to inspire all other societies, cultures and tribes to fix their problems. Militarily (or otherwise) attacking regressive and backwards cultures like the Arab/Islamic societies of the Middle East serves only to entrench the problems those cultures face.

And as Nietzsche said, "And when you gaze long into the Abyss, the Abyss also gazes into you."

Really Foota, I am not your enemy, I am

Your friend,

Holyman

(PS. If you wanted to take this conversation out to the masses, I've no problem if you post this PM in a thread)