In Reply To #94

That's possibly the most intelligent post I've ever read on these forums AntBee. :)

At a time when American citizens allow their government to steal their toothpaste and hair gel and force them to take off their shoes before boarding aircraft-on the face of it ( only) "seemingly '  reasonable precautions; the Government of Switzerland has encouraged all of it citizen-soldiers to carry their bayonets on domestic aircraft, and submit them to no search.

This is a very interesting point.

GOVERNMENT RESPONSES TO TERRORISM

If you think about the reaction to Terrorist attacks in the U.S. and U.K., government responses have included:

• Implementing security precautions that treat every individual citizen as a potential terrorist

• Instituting searches that ensure its citizenry are COMPLETELY UNARMED, at all the sites where terrorist attack has the highest potential - airports; stadiums; other public gatherings

• Reinforcing those searches with the message that Citizens are also prohibited from carrying anything that could be conceivably used as a weapon: toothpaste, hair-gel etc.

POINT ONE:

The U.S. and U.K. Governments have, through legislating restrictions on individual Civil Liberties, had a more negative impact on American and British societies, than any Terrorist Organisation could dare to dream of.

The greatest consideration given by plotters of Terrorist atrocities is not how many civilians will be killed, but how will the Government react?

The staging of terrorist attacks is not about causing the most human or material damage: it is about provoking the greatest political outrage. The greater the outrage, the more narrow the range of politically-acceptable responses the government under terrorist attack will be able to choose from.

Organised terrorists try with their campaigns, to back the governments into a defensive corner with their attacks. Backed into the corner, the government is more or less compelled to come out on the attack.

The idea is that this provoked counter-attack, provides the terrorists with political legitimacy for the Conflict they are engaged in.

POINT TWO:

Terrorists hope by their attacks, to provoke Governments into actions that will legitimise terrorists' attacks, and generate sympathy for the terrorists' causes.

BLOODY SUNDAY

A good example of this is the day known as "Bloody Sunday" in Northern Ireland.

At the surface, "Bloody Sunday" appears to be an example of much stronger Government forces, over-utilising its massive destructive advantage, to try and crush a popular rebellion.

Many Irishmen later joined Paramilitary Organisations, because of the memory of "Bloody Sunday", and what it meant - had come to mean - to the Catholic and Republican Communities in the North of Ireland.

But the calculated, authorised and overwhelming force unleashed by the British Government on "Bloody Sunday", were a response to intense provocation carried out by Irish terrorist organisations.

A point was reached where a sufficient number of people in the British Government agreed that there had been one Republican terrorist attack too many; and it was time to teach the Irish in Ulster a lesson they wouldn't ever forget.

"Have a crack at the Mick!" as they say in Pall Mall.

And so "Bloody Sunday" was permitted: the Dogs were unleashed on British Citizens in Ulster, and told to teach the Catholics a lesson they wouldn't forget.

And that day, the British Government's Dogs DID teach Irish Catholics a lesson that no Irish Catholic worthy of the name, would ever be allowed by their own communities to forget.

Had Irish terrorists managed to successfully destroy the British Government with the 1984 bombing of the Grand Hotel in Brighton (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brighton_bomb ), virtually every Catholic and Republican living in Ulster would have considered it appropriate retribution for "Bloody Sunday".

That was about the point that British Government Policy towards Irish terrorism slowly began to realise that Irish Terrorism could NOT be resolved militarily to the U.K.'s advantage. By the end of the 1980's, as Margaret Thatcher's demagogic power declined, it was recognised in British Government Policy, that any attempt to resolve the problem of Irish Terrorism militarily, was counter-productive.

POINT THREE:

A military response by the British Government, to acts of Irish Republican terrorism, made terrorist attacks, legitimate military Acts of War.

Furthermore, the British Government could only wield its military power in Northern Ireland as a blunt and heavy instrument. The British Military bureaucracy was designed to manage large-scale and often Set Piece conflicts, battles and Wars.

A NATION'S MILITARY FORCE IS DESIGNED TO DEFEND THAT NATION AGAIN ANOTHER NATION'S MILITARY

The sheer logistical challenges of organising and mobilising a National Military Force are a challenge common to any Society that attempts it; regardless of the ideology or political constitution of the Nation. If you want to organise your citizens into a collective and unified, National Military Force, there are certain practicalities you are forced to observe.

Possibly the most important of those practicalities - whether you are a Despot or a Democrat - is ensuring you have a good and reliable Chain of Command.

It's no good arming and training your citizens to the teeth, only to have them turn on you, or your People. So, Tyrant or Collective-Co-Lead-Organiser for The People, you both need to make sure that your military don't forget who they are fighting for.

And such are the practicalities of Command and Control, as well of course of Re-Supply, that ultimately all National Military Forces must mobilise and fight in, the same way.

Which is helpful, because it means that Nations, acknowledging what the Rules Must Be, can just concentrate on becoming the Biggest, Best and Most Powerful at doing things the same way Everyone else has to do them.

So, for instance, when it came to defeating the mobilised National Military Force of Argentina, in 1982, the British Government was able to leisurely roll up its sleeves, enact procedures and training that had been designed and practiced to cope with a much larger enemy and a much greater conflict, and casually reach out to the South Atlantic and...

Crush the Argentineans.

Who were, in fact, using an identical system of military logistics, bureaucracy and uh, equipment (...) to the ones that the British were using... Forty or fifty years prior to the Falkland's War...

(Just 'cos they didn't look like Zulus; didn't mean they couldn't die like Zulus.)

Shame.

PRIME MINISTER JOHN MAJOR

But Northern Irish Republicanism wasn't a Nation: it was an Idea. And no matter how hard the British Government tried to militarily crush the Idea of Northern Irish Republicanism; such military hostility only further fuelled Irish Terrorism, and provoked it to greater and more tragic depths.

The *REAL* Hero of Northern Ireland, is the British Prime Minister everyone always forgets: John Major. It was him, the quiet man of Downing Street, the grey man who just got on and did his fucking job, who resolved a problem that had been plaguing the British Isles for the better part of a Millennium.

It was John Major as Prime Minister who separated British Policy in Northern Ireland, treating terrorism as a criminal matter, to be dealt with by the civilian Police Force and Security Services; and ensuring that political progress was never disrupted or halted by terrorist activity, no matter how provocative.

With that simple, somewhat bland decision to not allow his reactions to be dictated by Irish Terrorists, John Major became the first Prime Minister responsible and politically self-sacrificing enough to do what was necessary in North Ireland.

Just as there are any number of factions within any defined Society, there were factions in the Irish Republican Movement who had a vested interest in prolonging the "Troubles" in Northern Ireland. A political settlement was not in their interests, and they had the means to disrupt such settlements. All the time they could guarantee an overwhelming military response by the British Government to every Irish Terrorist crime.

POINT FOUR:

When John Major took power over British Government action away from the Irish Terrorists: Peace followed quickly.

Nowadays, people in the North of Ireland look South to the Economic Miracle of the Republic of Ireland, think long and hard about the Euro. And the Pound...

And the question of willingly trading Northern Irish Sovereignty to Brussels, for the kind of Economic and Social Prosperity now being enjoyed in Dublin, is beginning to look very attractive...

(But that's another Story. :))

THE INDIVIDUAL CITIZEN, AND TERRORISM

I lived and worked through Irish Terrorism in London in the late 1980's and early 1990's, and I got to tell you, the frequency and scale of Irish terror attacks during that period dwarf anything that Islamist terrorists have managed in the last 10 years.

The only thing that has changed, are the reactions of the Citizenry.

Nowadays, we have the kind of "Terrorist Attacks" by home-grown and amateur Islamists, that wouldn't have made it onto a blooper reel of IRA out-takes.

And yet, the reactions of the Citizenry are considerably more disturbed and disturbing.

I don't know anything about the Swiss Government encouraging its Citizens to board airplanes with their bayonets, but it makes sense: it is a typically Swiss response to the current "Security Situation".

POINTS FIVE AND SIX:

It is clear and evident to all that National Military Bureaucracies designed, developed and practiced for fighting Set Piece, inter-national conflicts, are not the solution to the political and religious ideological conflicts the World is apparently experiencing.

Furthermore, the only logical way that the Military can guarantee Absolute Safety (which is what the Citizens demand, apparently...), is to militarise Society.

THE MILITARY IN MODERN SOCIETY

Since the Enemy is perceived by the Military to be *WITHIN* Society (somewhere...), its Battlefields are no longer out in open fields and sweeping canyons, but IN AMONGST THE PEOPLE THEY ARE TRYING TO PROTECT.

Unfortunately, the Greater the Military Power, the Greater the Bureaucracy needed to control it: to ensure it doesn't turn on the Citizens; or the Despots that control it.

And this makes the Military, by definition, too blunt and heavy a tool to use for such delicate and necessary Social Micro-Surgery, as removing a fanatically violent Ideology from Global Society.

Our Military Forces are too blunt and heavy a tool for Government to be using to Protect and Serve *OUR* Security too.

Soldiers and Marines don't understand the Niceties of Life.

When faced with a confusing social situation DURING THE COURSE OF THEIR WORK, military personnel are constrained by their Chain of Command, and their Rules of Engagement, from exercising any individual discretion - beyond perhaps some very narrowly defined parameters.

The only other Human Beings outside of their own Chain of Command that military personnel are intended and trained to interact with: are the Enemy.

And when you are interacting with the Enemy, Social Niceties do not have to be observed.

Indeed, the military attracts recruits who are psychologically, not all that disposed to Social Niceties.

Military Culture is Human Life at the Brutal, Sharp End, shorn of all its Niceties. Military Culture is predicated on and revolves around the Idea of Destroying Human Life. That is what the Military is there for; that is what it does; its raison d'etre.

Of course, nobody who joins the Military actually WANTS to Destroy Human Life; those kinds of people are screened out early at the psychological evaluation stage, as being too... Unreliable. But those who DO get into the Military, are willing to Destroy Human Life: If That Is What It Takes!

Fair enough.

That's Military Culture for you. A bunch of Men upholding a fine Human Tradition; living collective lives, shorn of all Social Niceties; and psychologically preparing themselves for the day when they may have to, against their inclination of course, Destroy Human Life.

As far as I can tell, if they can keep what they're doing between Consenting Adults, then I can make no judgement... It's all the running around, shoving it in other peoples' faces, and encouraging children to grow up in the same way that I object to... ;-)

Ack, each to their own.

POINT SEVEN:

Point is that the Military is neither equipped nor inclined to function WITHIN Society. The Military guards the EDGES of Society (or so they keep telling me...), and that's where their Social Conditioning equips them to be.

Not slap bang in the Middle of Polite Society.

INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY

In this apparent time of need of a greater vigilance for our own and others' Security, we have submitted to the presumed necessity of having the Military in our Lives, in our Societies. We have allowed our Police and Security Services to become militarised; and submit ourselves to superficial and apparently ineffective restrictions on our Liberties.

The crucial distinction that the Swiss Government's action (or the idea of that action) creates is clear:

Since the "Enemy" could strike from within, using weapons that aren't obvious - which rely on surprise at their ingenuity to be effective - then it makes sense to ensure that Swiss Citizen's ability and facility to use their own ingenuity, is not hampered by the State.

IN GOVERNMENT WE TRUST

The main difference between the situation in Switzerland, and the one in the U.S. and the U.K., is that the Swiss Government trusts the Swiss People; and the Swiss People don't trust their Government.

If President George W. Bush trusted the American People as much as he asks them to trust him; then he would encourage U.S. Citizens to go about their lives - and Way of Life - as they always had. He would encourage them, like the Swiss Government, to be vigilant, but not discourteous; alert, without being paranoid; and to remain capable of defending themselves and anyone around them, at a moment's notice.

Faith in President Bush's policies and popularity would be demonstrated by his being able to stand in a stadium full of Americans, none of whom had been pre-screened for weapons, or ideological preferences.

Let any terrorist try to take a crack at the Pres' with all those heavily armed Patriots surrounding him...

Instead, at a Time when the U.S. Government is looking more tyrannical than it ever has in its History, and nearly as tyrannical as some of the European Governments managed in the "Glory Days": American citizens are willingly submitting themselves to an increased militarisation of their Society; concomitant with restrictions on where and when they may carry arms about their person.

THE FACILITY TO SPEAK FREELY ABOUT SOCIAL AND POLITICAL ISSUES

One of the most striking and disturbing aspects of the video of the Student being tasered, is the presence of Campus Police in the frame in the first place.

So much of what has horrified Europeans about that video footage, is taken for granted and utterly normal by most Americans. The questions that Europeans instinctively ask when they see the footage are incomprehensible to many Americans.

Why are taser-armed security personnel present WITHIN the Debating Chamber?

We all understand the need/obsession with Security these days, fine, but having two essentially-armed and wholly uniformed security personnel standing IN the Chamber, and so close to the microphone, seems to Europeans to profane the sacred fundamentals of Popular Democracy.

In a University of all places.

Passionate and inquiring minds, the best and brightest of one Socio-Economic Class or another: and they are taught to normalise popular political debate that is patrolled by uniformed security; and failure to accord with strict behavioural conditioning, can be and is punished with violent force.

In Switzerland, if the retired cuckoo-clock maker who sweeps up after debates, tried pointing at his watch to hurry up a speaker in a political debating chamber - *ESPECIALLY* a Student Chamber - the rest of the Forum would likely as not all pull out finely polished semi-automatic pistols, and calmly shoot the janitor, before resuming listening politely to the Speaker talk his or her Self out.

Americans hypnotically chant the Amendment that allows them to remain a well-armed Citizens' Militia, ready to rise up against Government Tyranny. They worship the Right they have to bear arms, so vigorously, that they ignore the fact that this Right to Bear Arms, is more ceremonial than practical.

POINT EIGHT:

An American's Right to Bear Arms on a day-to-day basis, where and when he or she desires, is subject *WHOLLY* to the U.S. Government's discretion. The Right to Bear Arms to protect against Government Tyranny, suddenly looks a bit hollow, when that Right extends only to where the Government permits.

CONCLUSION

Americans are Free only in the sense that they are Free of the Understanding and Meaning of Freedom.

Peace