Hi Audie,

Yup, I was aware of the event, and its dubious nature.

To give you a little of my personal background, I worked with Goldman Sachs 1995-96, and spent most of the 1990's working for one investment bank or another in the City of London. For the last nine years, I have been working with a Consultancy organisation that works very closely with the British (and other) Government, providing strategic advice on (government) service delivery and large scale infrastructure projects.

So I guess I've seen both sides of the, uh, "Gold Coin". :)

In matters of Economics, like Politics, those involved at the highest levels - let's call them the "Elite" - work on the principle that the vast majority of the Public don't fully understand, and don't [b]*WANT*[/b] to fully understand how Society's Economical and Political systems work.

A good analogy might be that of an On-Line Game that uses ranking, say, uh, "Battlefield 2" ;)

When you first get into the Game, you are more interested in figuring out how it works, and whether you are going to enjoy playing it, than you are concerned with your ranking. After a while, once you've got the hang of the Game, you find yourself rising up the rankings to a level that is equal to your natural ability, and the amount of time you spend playing the Game.

And chances are, that's as much as you will think about the ranking aspects of the Game: you'll just get on with playing the Game for no other reason than personal enjoyment.

However, on occasion, you might glance at the very top of the ranking table, and if you do, you'll see that those at the very top of the table not only have scores higher than yours, but scores that are much, much, [b]*MUCH*[/b]  higher than yours.

And you'll think to yourself, "How on Earth did they get such high scores?"

You might conclude that they have been using cheats; you might decide that they are just ultra-dedicated, and able and willing to put in far more time than you ever would or could; and/or you might decide that these people at the top of the rankings, must have some kind of secret or arcane understanding of the complexities of the Game, which enables them to rise to and maintain their position at the top of the rankings.

And then you might think to yourself: "Can I, or do I want to be bothered to put in all that Time and Energy to learn those secrets? Would I feel comfortable using cheats? Is it really that important to me to be at the top of the rankings, that I'll invest all the Time and Energy required to get there, and hold my position there?"

And if you're like me Audie - and I suspect you are - you'll probably just think: "Ah, what the fuck, it's just a Game I enjoy playing; it's not at all important to me where I sit on the 'rankings'... Who gives a fuck about rankings anyway? Certainly no-one I care about."

And you'll just get on with playing the Game, and not give the "Rankings" another thought.

OK, that's the analogy; now let's transfer it back to Economics and Politics:

When we look at the top of the Social Economics (Financial) "Rankings", we see people with [b]*VAST*[/b] quantities of wealth - more money than we can possibly imagine. And when we look at the top of the Political "Rankings", we see the same thing, with people who have more [b]*POWER*[/b] than we can ever imagine possessing ourselves.

And we think, "These people must be really intelligent, or really well-educated, or at least brilliantly informed. They're probably cheating as well... They've certainly put [b]*ALL*[/b] their Time and Energy into getting to where they are today..."

And we hear stories about million-dollar gold sales, and billion dollar bank-bail-outs, and trillion dollar Economic Rescue Packages...

And we switch off.

Because we decide that all of this shit seems so incomprehensible, and requires far more Time and Energy to understand than we want or are able to give...

And so those people at the top of Society's "Rankings", just carry on doing all these incomprehensible things, and everyone further down the "Rankings", just gets on with doing whatever they are doing, without ever really thinking about these people at the top of the "Rankings", or what it is they are up to.

And we start to dream up all these stories about the "12 Bankers", or "300 Industrialists", or "1,000 Illuminati" who control and direct the lives of everyone else in the World.

But the Truth Audie, is much less exciting, much more mundane.

The Truth is that there is a sort of intellectual firewall built around the activities of the most powerful politicians, and richest financiers. They create a screen of information that makes it seem as though what they are doing behind the screen is so important, so complex, so serious, that it's best that others don't even try to understand what's going on...

I suppose it's a bit like the "Wizard of Oz": a big, scary image on the screen; but behind the Curtain, it's just a frail old man (a bunch of frail old men...), frantically pulling levers and pressing buttons.

And if anyone should or does make an effort to understand what's going on behind the "Curtain", by learning how the Systems work, learning the Language that is spoken "Behind the Curtain", then they nearly always also learn to [b]*THINK*[/b] the same way as those people "Behind the Curtain".

And when that happens, they forget that they were ever on the outside of the "Curtain"; [b]*AND*[/b] they understand why it's so important to keep the "Curtain" up, in order to protect their own position, and the positions of all others who operate within the "Curtain".

But it's not a secret club. Anyone can join. It just requires a lot of Time and Energy, and a real burning ambition to be at the top of Society's "Rankings".

And these people within the "Curtain"...

Well, they're not really hidden, we know who they are: all the politicians who lead the most powerful Nations; and all the richest people in the World.

Membership isn't a guaranteed, permanent affair: people can fall outside the "Curtain" as easily as they can cross inside it.

The key is that People outside the "Curtain" are too frightened or too bored to look behind the "Curtain"; and those inside the "Curtain", like to keep things just that way.

But you know Audie, I really do Believe that what is happening right now, is that the "Curtain" is finally falling down; and for once, I've a real feeling that this time, it won't be put back up again.

And that's got to be Good News for all of us. :)

[face_peace]