Well one thing's for sure Foota: I don't blame you for not being able to grasp the magnitude of the situation.

I'm afraid that we are way, way beyond apportioning blame here. And you might as well blame human beings for liking oxygen, as blame them for wanting to accumulate material possessions without restraint.

But let's first see if I can put some figures on the situation for you:

In December 2011, a reputable study was carried out by the Levy Economics Institute that took a detailed look at the way that the Federal Reserve was being used to bail out the financial system. Where the U.S. Government's own Accountability Office put the tally at $16 trillion, the Levy Economics Institute put the figure at $29 trillion in the form of loans and asset purchases.

http://www.levyinstitute.org/pubs/op_23.pdf

Taking the lower, $16 trillion figure of the GAO, that is about what the combined value of all residential real estate in the U.S. was worth, around 2003, just as the Bubble was really getting going. $16 trillion is also not far off what the combined value of all real estate in the U.S. is worth today (it's currently around $18 trillion and falling).

http://conversableeconomist.blogspot.co.uk/2012/06/drop-in-total-value-of-us-housing.html

So just do the math there Foota. If all the residential real estate in the U.S. was worth the same as the amount of money *DEFINITELY* given to banks by 2011, and potentially much lower than the money *ACTUALLY* given, surely that should have sorted the problem out? It certainly doesn't make any sense that the Fed's "Quantative Easing" programmes are still running, buying up $50 billion dollars' worth of "distressed assets" every month (that's more than $0.5 trillion a year at that rate)...

And that's just what the U.S. Central Bank has allocated to international corporations and banks for "financial assistance" since 2008. The Bank of England spent £850 billion in 2009, £1.16 trillion in 2010, and a further £500 billion in 2011. The European Central Bank, as well as several other non-Eurozone European Banks have all handed cash over to the Global private banking sector.

In total then, far, far more cash than can possibly have been obtained and/or overspent by the poor, humble Plebian masses.

Consider that the total number of mortgages considered "Sub-Prime" in 2007, totalled only $1.3 trillion. And at the time of the crash, the delinquency rate on those mortgages was a mere 12.6%.

http://www.nbcnews.com/id/17584725#.UUd61BzOt8E

That's a mere $163 billion worth of Sub-prime mortgages that had fallen into arrears. Delinquency rates on higher-rated mortgages were around about the same.

Unfortunately, the problem was that the Masters of the Financial Universe, in their wisdom, had used all manner of entirely unregulated alchemy, to create a situation where a single, underlying sub-prime mortgage of say $250,000, was the keystone to a massively inverted pyramid of Mortgage Backed Securities, Collateralised Debt Obligations and Credit Default Swaps, that could easily reach an inflated value of $100 million at the peak of the market.

Think about that Foota.

Your poor deluded feckless and irresponsible dolt gets seduced by incredibly persuasive and largely relentless mortgage-lending propaganda, endorsed even by the President of the United States of America:

[youtube] http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GkAtUq0OJ68[/youtube]

Your poor dolt gets a mortgage approved, not because he knows how to defraud the system of checks that should prevent him getting a mortgage, but because the salesperson on commission knows how to get around the tedious red tape preventing the poor dolt from fulfilling his dream.

Then, once that $250k mortgage is on the books, some very highly rewarded and supposedly intelligent individuals in the Finance Sector get to work on that loan, and before you know it, it has been parcelled up, given a AAA rating, and is changing hands for $100 million.

But as far as you are concerned Foota: the poor dolt is just as much to blame as everyone else...

I mean c'mon. It really is time for you to stop sucking the Kool-Aid down Foota. You are just as prone to being fucked in the arse over this as everyone else.

Don't you see that when the Bankers demand their dues, if they can't get their money from people and communities that are bankrupt, they will take it from those who aren't?

Surely a responsible family man like you must have a 401(k), long-term savings and investments. Do you think that none of that is going to be used to give to the Banking Sector? Do you really think that they will just allow themselves to go bust, when they realise that all the over-extended types just don't have any money left to repay them?

Oh, I get it. You think that Governments are just going to have to put up tax rates, to tax the incomes of the overly-indebted, until they have repaid what they owe...

But surely you can only tax an income... Why is anyone going to work simply to remain in Debt Bondage? You think people would rather work for nothing, so they can pay off the gambling debts of obscenely wealthy individuals?

You really do need to get a handle on Human Nature.

The mess that the Capitalist Economic System is in can only have been created by the most powerful people within that System. Imagining that the least powerful people in a Capitalist Society - the Poor - could bring the System crashing down, is the same as imagining that a handful of half-crazed religious nut-jobs could in anyway damage the identity and freedoms of the People of the United States.

You keep ragging on the feckless poor if you like Foota: but don't think that makes your savings any more secure than they currently aren't.

:>_