[quote=MeinHoffendant][color=deeppink]have fun in jail barcehobbit. who is gonna feed your retarded brother bilo when you're getting rammed up the arse by black dudes?[/color][/quote]

Apologies to Barcelona for re-posting the above quote; but I am so frankly disgusted with it, I feel compelled to draw it to the attention of the wider =PBF= Community.

For those who aren't aware, Barcelona is a full time carer for his brother, who for reasons Barcelona has shared in the past, is unable to care for himself.

And also for those who aren't aware: Hoff and CCCP are the kind of repressed homosexuals who can't bear to embrace their sexuality, and so must express it in the most repugnant, sadistic and masochistic way possible.

To this end, both of them have fixated on Barcelona as just the kind of straight guy *THEY* believe would "punish" them with forced sodomy if he ever got hold of them. This fantasy fuels their engagement and obsession with Barcelona - and others around here, to a lesser extent - and drives them to post more and more provocative and outrageous comments to Barcelona, culminating in the above.

Now I don't claim to be an angel around here, and I've fired off my fair share of vicious comments at a couple of posters here at =PBF=. And I also know and appreciate that the Mods try to operate a light-touch policy in keeping things under control around here.

But I don't think that this is an issue for the Moderators, as much as it is an issue for us as a Community as a whole.

For the most part, we're all fairly robust and thick-skinned individuals around here; but I think there is a certain level of respect and decency that we can all silently acknowledge as necessary to prevent this Community becoming just another Internet Howling Pit.

And I would really like to know if I am the only person who finds CCCP & Hoff's behaviour toward Barcelona (and others) completely unacceptable.

Barcelona is a big lad, and more than capable of taking care of himself. But I know from my own experiences around here that there comes a point where being the object of someone else's negative infatuations, just becomes tiresome to deal with.

Whilst Hoff has his bright moments - usually when CCCP isn't around - CCCP is the most ugly and repugnant poster still participating in our Community. And our Community would be far poorer if those two jackals manage to hound out Barcelona.

I've got no more right to call for CCCP & Hoff to be banned, than they, or SomeGuy, or anyone else has a right to call for me to be banned or suspended. But at the very least I want to show my support for Barcelona in his having to deal with these two irritants; and ideally create a dialogue amongst the Community about what is, and what is not acceptable behaviour.

I can't recall how many times I've heard of CCCP and Hoff being "warned" by the Moderators, but I know this latest warning is nothing new. I think their own self-loathing for their sexuality, is mirrored in the way they loathe the =PBF= Community that they just can't stop themselves participating with.

I think we would do us [b]*AND THEM*[/b] a favour if we can convince the Moderators to ban them; or at the least, suspend them until they can learn to behave in a way that accords with the Rest of the Community.

And if the comment at the top of this post doesn't deserve a ban or suspension: I can't think what kind of comment would.

Peace