[quote="Foota"][color=#FF0000]If an individual goes bankrupt, they have to demonstrate they have already used all of their wealth (including retirement funds) before a judge will allow them to stop or restructure the payment to their creditors and debt.

If a public government goes bankrupt, apparently they can cut everything but their pension retirement funds and a judge will allow them to stop paying certain creditors.

Since Stockton's biggest liability is their $900 million bill due to CALPERS to pay pensions, I think it is criminal that this fund should be exempt when refinancing their other debt.[/color][/quote]

Yeah, no, not quite. You're still suffering from Punditry-Imposed-Obfuscation Foota...

It's simple:

If a private individual is declared bankrupt, it is because they no longer have anything left of any value with which to pay their creditors. Nothing at all. Zip. All gone. Game over. Credit Rating D.

The clock is set to zero: much lower than where they started from as a youthful, creditworthy citizen, embarking on an optimistic Life on the Seas of Capitalism. They're going to really struggle to get any credit, for anything, at least for a while. But what they earn after bankruptcy, by and large, is pretty much theirs to keep.

If a private corporation is declared bankrupt, that's it, it ceases to be. It is no more. It is an ex-corporation. It is bereft of, well, everything. It loses its status as an entity.

A bankrupt corporation no longer exists.

So...

What happens when a town, county, State or National Government goes bankrupt then?

Well, nothing like what happens to a private individual or a corporation, when they go bankrupt.

For starters, even a National Government is essentially a subset of a larger form of Government: even if that larger form is just the Human Concept of Government... But town, county and State governments are more obviously subordinate forms.

And fact is that the next level of Government up the food chain will step in and ensure that vital services are maintained. That's guaranteed by the ideas of Statehood and Nationhood. People and Governments just can't afford to sit by and watch their fellow States-people or National Citizens live in too obviously Third World conditions.

So in terms of all the essential services that a Public Government provides, all those will continue to be provided for.

So it really comes down to what the creditors of that Government body can realistically foreclose upon; what they can repossess. At most, that might be a few draughty buildings, some open spaces, maybe a school or two. But the fact is that those are all Civic Amenities, and they can't really be sold off, not without declaring the town, county or State closed.

And who can do that?

No, about the only thing that any Government has that is of any value, is the Social Contract it has to provide its Citizens with certain services. You know, the things that we expect as hallmarks of Western Civilisation: running water; electricity; mass transit; educational services; law and order...

Those sorts of things.

See, there's a value there, particularly as the flip side of the Social Contract is that Citizens are compelled (one way or another) to pay taxes to fund those services. And that means that there is a guaranteed, recession proof, single-supplier service provider business, just waiting for the right people to use it to turn a profit.

Problem is that since Reaganomics became all the rage in the 1980's, most of those services have already been sold off - sorry: "Contracted Out" - to private service providers. Indeed, those private service providers are invariably the primary creditors when a regional Government goes belly up (what with the fact that Governments collect taxes rather than owe them).

So there are pretty measly pickings there for any of those creditors.

So what do you really think happens Foota? Do you think that a Human Society gets closed down, because it is declared bankrupt?

Do you think that a judge is going to order all of the residents of Stockton to pack up their bags and leave town, because their government is bankrupt? That the Sheriffs from adjoining towns will come around and evict everyone? That contractors will come and board up the entire town, to keep the squatters out?

Never gonna happen Foota.

Nor, by the way, is raiding the pension funds that retirees feel they've earned and rely upon entirely.

If pension funds weren't ring-fenced to protect them from a parent organisation's financial difficulties, do you honestly think any fucker would be stupid enough to pay into an employer's pension scheme?

Silly person.

:>_