The only topic that is really appropriate in the immediate aftermath of events like this one is: How Can We Stop These Events Happening?

Let us firstly be clear that this is not a Nationalistic or even a political problem: it is a Human Social problem.

These events occur inside and outside of the United States. These events occur where firearms control is tight, as much as they occur where those controls are more relaxed or non-existent.

These events are expressions of alienation, rage, guilt, hatred and fear. These events are intended by the perpetrators to incite the same revulsion and fear in Society that the perpetrators feel themselves. The perpetrators are clearly in so much Emotional pain as a result of their social condition that they feel the only way to alleviate that pain is to inflict as much of it as they can on others. These expressions take the form of extreme physical violence because that is an expressive form that the perpetrator *KNOWS* will get them noticed.

That these attacks are carried out on the undeniably innocent is an indication - an expression - of how the perpetrator feels about their own lost, forfeited or stolen innocence.

The difference between a human being that could commit an act like this and a human being that could not is not digital: it is not a binary "Would"/"Would Not".

It is a wide and analogue psychological spectrum. Every one of us moves up and down through that spectrum every day. Fortunately, whilst many of us are familiar with that scale's "Red Zone", the overwhelming majority of us never get anywhere near its most extreme point.

But we shouldn't imagine for a second that we are not positioned somewhere on that same scale. To do so is to categorise the perpetrators of these acts as something other than human: as monsters.

And when we do that, when we create even greater separation between ourselves and these "inhuman monsters", we only increase the incidents of alienation and hostility that can drive the "creepy", the "weird", the socially dysfunctional, ever closer to that ultimate extreme of the "Red Zone".

In other words: we do nothing to help reduce the problem; and everything to increase it.

We do live in Societies where socially dysfunctional individuals are ridiculed and marginalised. We also live in Cultures where we are told that violence *CAN* be a justifiable response to personal and political provocations. And, we live in environments where the tools necessary to amplify and extend our abilities to project violence are, to one degree or another, easy enough to lay our hands on.

We may console ourselves that we have never personally ridiculed, dismissed or ignored another human being who has then gone off to shoot-up a school full of kids. But if we have ever done it to anyone, have we ever considered who they may have gone on to ridicule and belittle? Or who their victim might pay the action forward to?

No-one else seems to want to take responsibility for the creation of these monsters in our midst. In most cases, people would rather not own up to belonging to the same species.

But these "monsters" are fellow human beings. And they are created by the societies that we also create and contribute to. They are all around us; and they exist, just as potentially, within each one of us.

That is, unless of course, you happen to be one of those people who have never lost their tempers... Have never felt lost, isolated or alienated... Have never felt frustration or rage at the stupidity and venality of Society...

And if you are, well, congratulations.. But, if that really is the case, then maybe it is you that isn't really Human.

:>_