Hey Steel.

You know, one definition of arrogance - and it's probably the definition that I use - is believing that there is no more to learn about a subject, or a person, or an idea.

You've been coming across pretty close-minded on the subject of Islam, and Muslims in general Steel; you know, the same kind of close-mindedness that not so long ago, you and I were taking Foota, SomeGuy et al to task about, with their support for Right Wing politics.

Now I'm not sure what you mean by "ego" Steel. I'm a very Spiritual person, and ego means something very specific to me: it means our mental apparatus, our rational personality, who we THINK we are. Our Spirit or Soul, by contrast, is our Emotional apparatus, our Spiritual Identity, who we FEEL we are.

Someone with a strongly developed ego will tend to be close minded on many, if not all issues relating to Life. Someone with a strongly developed Spirituality, will tend to keep a much more open mind on things.

So what's the difference between a closed mind and an open one?

Let me demonstrate:

I think you COULD be right about Muslims and Islam.

I do, I really do Steel.

I also think that I COULD be right about Muslims and Islam; I think that very moderate Muslims could be right about Muslims and Islam; I think that very extremist Muslims could be right about Muslims and Islam; I think that Orthodox Jews could be right about Muslims and Islam...

(See where I'm going with this Steel?)

Basically, I THINK that anyone who has an opinion on Muslims and Islam, COULD be right.

I also think they could be wrong: you could be wrong; I could be wrong; the moderates could be wrong; the extremists could be wrong, etc.

I think this, because I'm keeping my mind open.

My FEELING is that of 1.5 billion Muslims, only a very tiny and not-at-all representative fraction of them, share and express the extreme hatred that you are focusing on.

I'm pretty sure that I've got access to the same information about Muslims and Islam that you have access to Steel, but somehow we have both arrived at different conclusions. The only reason I can suggest for this, is that your mind is more closed about the idea that Islam (and all those who follow it) is an inherently negative force in Human affairs.

I'm not saying that Islam isn't an inherently negative force Steel. But I'm not saying that it definitely is either.

There are at least two sides to Everything; and least two different ways of looking at the same thing.

I think that Islam has some very negative qualities, and I think that it also has some very positive qualities too. I think that the same about all Organised Religions - NONE of which I subscribe to: I'm Spiritual, not at all religious.

I pretty much think that about all ideas, activities and things in Human Life Steel: morally, ideologically, politically, energetically, all ideas and ideologies are neutral; what makes them either Positive/Good or Negative/Bad, is how Humans choose to use or approach them.

Take Islam for instance.

Islam is just an abstract; it's a set of words, written down a while ago, in a few books here and there.

YOU look at those words (well, some of those words), and you see something negative in them, something bad or wrong.

Raptor looks at those same words (and almost certainly a lot more of those words), and he sees something positive in them, something good or right.

And I look at those words (probably more of those words than you, but not as many as Raptor), and I see both negativity AND positivity, good AND bad, right AND wrong.

The words are objectively no different: it is our interpretation of them, and our reaction to them which gives them different Energy and different powers.

You picked out some examples of Islamic scripture that did, indeed, wreak of hatred. I responded by doing the same thing with Judaeo-Christian scripture. You might have responded by picking out some examples of Judaeo-Christian scripture that spoke of Love, and Peace; and I would have responded by picking out examples of Islamic scripture that spoke of the same qualities.

I wasn't trying to show that you had misread or misinterpreted the passages you'd picked out from the Qu'ran; I was trying to show that you could do exactly the same thing with any religious scripture: the Jewish Old Testament; the Christian New Testament; the Hindu Bhagavad Gita; even the Tibetan Book of the Dead.

My point is that the common link is not the scripture, or even The Scriptures: what is common to all, is Humanity.

There are some very nasty, very negative, very bad humans in ALL societies and cultures; and there are some very nice, very positive, very good humans in ALL societies and cultures too. There are even more humans who are neither very nice, or very nasty, neither very good, or very bad: these middle ground people are by far and away the majority; and by and large, they spend most of their time just feeling really confused about Life.

Humans who feel really confused about Life, often crave certainty. MOST human beings crave certainty.

Some people, like JFitch, find certainty in Religion; some people, like Foota, find certainty in Politics; some people, like many, find certainty by closing their minds to alternative possibilities (about anything) to the One that they consider to be The Truth (about anything).

And a few people, like me, find certainty in the Uncertainty of Life.

That's not an arrogant, conceited or egotistical claim. I just realised a while ago that since it's impossible to be certain about anything, it's all a bit of a waste of effort TRYING to be certain about anything. It's much more sensible to just get on with enjoying the UN-certainty.

As I said at the top of this message Steel, I'm not certain about anything. I'm not even completely certain that it's not possible to be certain about anything...

But I'm comfortable with that uncertainty; I can live with that uncertainty; I enjoy that uncertainty.

If you think about what I write on =PBF=, there's very little in the way of my claiming to be certain about anything. What there is a LOT of, is me challenging other people's certainty about Life's issues, and the broader Human Condition.

And that's all I was really trying to do in this thread with Raptor: just trying to challenge your certainties about Islam, and Muslims in general.

For my part, I enjoyed - am still, through this message, enjoying - our dialogue. It's good to get passionate about things; it's good to get exercised and stimulated by ideas and beliefs that are important to us. And above all, I think it is good to keep an open mind, on absolutely Everything.

I'm fairly certain that you're a robust enough respondent not to have taken offence at anything I wrote to or about you in that thread; and I can assure you that anything you wrote to me has only strengthened our association, not offended or damaged it.

I *AM* humble enough to accept that you COULD be absolutely correct about everything that you've written about Islam and Muslims in general. Perhaps they ARE indoctrinated into a nasty, vicious, negative ideology that forces them to fight anyone who doesn't believe as they do.

But I'm also pretty sure that that is a description that can be applied to many people around the World: it isn't a quality that is exclusive to Muslims; and in my Experience, it is not a description that applies to the overwhelming number of Muslims I know, have met, or have heard about.

So I'm not dismissing your ideas that a lot of violence and hatred emanates from the Islamic World; I'm just saying that I don't think that negativity is either exclusive to or a result of Islam.

Rather, I think it is just a part of the Human Condition.

And whatever else can be said about the size of each of our egos: we ARE ALL HUMAN. :)

Peace,

H.