Q 8:39

"Fight them until all opposition ends and all submit to Allah."

Q 4:76

"Those who believe fight in the Cause of Allah."

Q 9:123

"Fight the unbelievers around you, and let them find harshness in you."

Ishaq 578

"Crushing the heads of the infidels and splitting their skulls with sharp swords, we continually thrust and cut at the enemy."

Ishaq 324

"He said, 'Fight them so that there is no more rebellion, and religion, all of it, is for Allah only. Allah must have no rivals."

Q 9:14

"Fight them and Allah will punish them by your hands, lay them low, and cover them with shame. He will help you over them."

OBL

"Fighting is a part of our religion. Those who love God and his Prophet and this religion cannot deny that."

OBL

"The pieces of the bodies of infidels were flying like dust particles. If you would have seen it with your own eyes, you would have been very pleased, and your heart would have been filled with joy."

A 2004 Pew survey revealed that OBL is viewed favourably by large percentages in Pakistan (65%), Jordan (55%) and Morocco (45%)

Environics poll

84,000 Canadian Muslims -- identified themselves as extremists supporting terrorism

Steven Runciman

"Unlike Christianity, which preached a Peace that it never achieved, Islam unashamedly came with a sword."

Abdel Rahman al-Rashed

"It is fact that not all Muslims are terrorists, but it is equally certain, and exceptionally painful, that almost all terrorists are Muslims."

In Turkey as many as 31% say that suicide attacks against Americans and other Westerners in Iraq are justifiable.

Abu Bakr

"Jihad is obligatory for the Muslims"

William H. McNeill

"The rise of Islam offers perhaps the most impressive example in World History of the power of words to alter human behaviour in sudden, surprising ways."

Sheikh A. Yassin

"The so-called peace path is not peace and it is not a substitute for Jihad and resistance."

Q 61:4

"Surely Allah loves those who fight in His Cause."

Sura 4-47

"Slaughter and decapitate the unbelievers."

Q 9:5

"Slay the idolaters wherever you find them. Arrest them, besiege them, and lie in ambush everywhere for them."

Q 9:41

"Whether unarmed or well-equipped, march on and fight for the cause of Allah, with your wealth and your persons."

Q 48:29

"Those who follow him are ruthless to the unbelievers."