Perhaps it comes down to the difference between privacy and secrecy.

I suppose that there are a few things I do in my Life that I prefer to do in private. But is there anything I do that I really need to keep secret?

I'm struggling to think of anything...

Those things that I like to do privately I generally do in the privacy of my own home. And I only very occasionally bother to film myself while I'm doing those things.

I can't think of anything that I like to do privately that breaks any significant social prohibitions. I download videos from torrent sites from time to time, so I can't say I'm not doing anything illegal. But now that I come to think of it, I'm pretty sure that is the only thing I do privately that is illegal. So I'm not doing anything seriously criminal.

And I'm not doing anything that would be personally, socially or professionally embarrassing if the Whole World knew I was doing it. I'm not having an affair, or beating my children or mistreating our pets. The house can be a bit of a pig-sty I suppose. Holywoman & I do tend to have half-hearted tidying sessions if we know someone is visiting, but I think that is just out of politeness rather than fear of embarrassment.

So, no secrets that I can think of.

On the other hand, there is a lot of information about myself that I don't choose to voluntarily share with the wider public and commercial corporations. And it does seem I'm in a minority in that regard.

I don't have a Facebook account. I religiously avoid "Loyalty Cards" and that Nectar Card thing. I don't even register my Oyster Card (for London Public Transport). So only my bank manager and American Express know my spending and travelling habits. My mobile phone provider knows who I call and how often. And I never respond to "Quick Online Surveys", should I be invited to do so whilst touring the Interwebs.

I don't not share that information because I want to keep it secret: I know it isn't and necessarily can't be secret. I just don't see why I should do these faceless corporations' jobs for them. I'll buy the things I need as I need them, and the things I want when *I* decide I want them.

Now when I walk out my front door, into the Greater Public World, I always figure that one way or another, I am immediately under observation. I might not be noticed by every single person I walk past, but I am certainly visible to Everyone.

My feelings about CCTV cameras is that should I get entangled in some incident whilst out in Public, I would feel much happier being convicted or acquitted based on CCTV evidence, than on some "Eye-witnesses'" testimony. Technology is so much more reliably objective than human beings tend to be.

I'm not doing anything privately when I go out in Public; and I'm never doing anything that I need to keep secret from Holywoman, the Law and/or Society. So I've got nothing to hide.

I feel safer in Public, knowing that there are many cameras keeping a vigilant and objective eye out for my safety, and the safety of the people I love.

Do I worry that there is some shadowy government operative somewhere, monitoring my every move and action? No.

Because I know that if I was important enough to warrant such attention, then the cameras that would be tracking my every move wouldn't be tied to lampposts or an overhead gantry somewhere: they would be in the hands of people working for the commercial media, hoping to get some profitable intelligence or scoop about my activities.

And I think that is all it comes down to.

People who are concerned or paranoid about others - particularly government "others" -  tracking their every move, are, I think, actually more afraid of admitting to themselves that they just aren't that important to the Grand Scheme of Things.

Look at how many people use Facebook and similar "Social Networking" phenomena, and you get the distinct impression that a lot of people would *LOVE* to feel that their every move and utterance was being tracked and processed by at least *SOMEONE*... *ANYONE*!

I mean, surely anyone who has a genuine operational need to avoid CCTV observation of their lives, is not going to be shouting about that in public, and otherwise generally drawing attention to their self... I suspect they'd just keep quiet about it, and draw themselves further into the shadows.

Unless I'm really missing the point here.

[face_peace]