Oh, no, no, no guys. Far be it from me to question  SomeGuy's grasp on American History - which I am sure is every bit as firm as his grasp on Reality...

No, it was an genuine enough question... Though obviously, I wouldn't be asking SomeGuy anything that I wouldn't have asked Google first.

No, I was uh, genuinely asking SomeGuy if he knew that amongst several amendments and changes to the U.S. Constitution, were the changes relating to the treatment of non-White Anglo Saxon Protestant Americans over the years.

Obviously, until the passage of the Fourteenth Amendment, Black Americans were not counted as human beings, but as property. And obviously property couldn't own other property: especially when the property of the first part might very well use the property of the second part to aid it's ceasing to be property altogether...

So no SomeGuy, slaves in America were not allowed to own firearms(they weren't allowed to *OWN* anything - they had no rights to title or property). Trusted slaves may have been permitted to carry their owners weapons whilst accompanying their owners... But really, did you honestly think that slaves were allowed to own firearms (or any weapons..)?

http://www.old-yankee.com/rkba/racial_laws.html

http://history-world.org/black_codes.htm

Slaves were also explicitly forbidden from joining (or being utilised by) any State's militia:

http://www.occidentaldissent.com/american-racial-history-timeline-2/american-racial-history-timeline/

And it was never legal for slaves to fight for either the Union or Confederate Army. And it remained illegal for blacks to fight for the Confederate Army (not a law that I imagine required much enforcement...) throughout the Civil War.

Blacks were finally allowed to join the Union Army after 1862, when (the Union) Congress passed the Second Confiscation and Militia Act, which authorised Lincoln to employ Blacks in the Union Army (though for lower wages that whites). But typically, the Black Americans who joined the Union Army rarely fought, but instead performed more menial and functional duties, such as cooking, cleaning out latrines, and burying the dead.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slaves_and_the_American_Civil_War

Anyhoo, the point I'm trying to demonstrate is that far from American's "Second Amendment Rights [sic]" being an immutable and sacrosanct foundation of the Constitution; firearms laws have changed plenty of times, and the "Right of the People to keep and bear arms" was entirely infringed, from the get-go, if you didn't happen to be a W.A.S.P. male.

Just as the English language has changed and evolved over the centuries, so too have legal and Constitutional recognitions of who exactly is allowed to "bear arms".

Couple that with the fact that firearms themselves have changed out of any ability an 18th Century gentleman would have to recognise them, and one has to really question if those Foundational Constitutional Beliefs that some Americans cling so fervently to, are really as firm and inviolable as they would like to believe.

Personally, I think guys like SomeGuy and AV are on a hiding to nothing trying to use half-baked pseudo-legal justifications, based on anachronistic language and documents, to support their desire to hold onto their weapons.

They would be much better off - and present a virtually inarguable position - if they just stated that the reason why they should retain the right to own weapons, is because their country is full of homicidal psychopaths who are all armed to the teeth.

You don't need to consult the History books to see the Truth of that; nor need to bone up on Enlightenment philosophy to nod sympathetically and concur that if you lived in America today, you probably wouldn't feel safe without a weapon either...

:>_