Hey, good to hear from you.

I'm glad you sent your PM; I'm really pleased to have received it; yes this "touchy-feely" stuff is best kept away from the open forum, and yes, Barca is a douche (but I still love him anyway!).

So... What are we looking at here..?

Well, since you made the reference in your PM, I'll run with it:

"The Matrix" films presented an idea to us all. It isn't a new idea, and it isn't the idea that what "The Matrix" describes is literally true.

To me, it was the idea that whilst many of us prefer to bury our heads in the sand, and often with perfectly valid reason, there are other people out there who are quite willing to take advantage of us when we do that.

If burying our heads in the sand was an innocent activity, that just moved us into a "neutral" state, where we did no good, but we also did no harm: then it would be a perfectly valid personal choice. Who could pass judgement on us?

The problem, I think, is that *WHILST* we have our heads buried in the sand, there are too many people taking advantage of us. We may not be doing any particular or deliberate harm, by burying our heads in the sand; but there is a lot of crap that happens, that probably wouldn't happen, if so many of us didn't have our heads buried in the sand.

"Heads buried in the sand" is a good expression. It is apocryphally what ostriches are supposed to do when they sense danger. It's not true of course. If an ostrich senses danger, they usually get quite aggressive and charge towards wherever they perceive the threat is coming from: and they are *BIG* birds... Quite capable of looking after themselves!

But nevertheless, we are talking about human beings here. When we say we have our "head buried in the sand", I think that broadly means that we are deliberately ignoring information that is available to us, because we are afraid of what we might learn from that information.

So perhaps a more accurate metaphor is: tearing off the sticking-plaster.

We have a wound. It is covered by a sticking-plaster. We haven't looked at it for a *LONG* time. And it is starting to smell, really bad...

We can keep the sticking-plaster in place, because when we are just looking at a sticking plaster, we can convince ourselves that everything is okay. In fact, if the sticking plaster we are looking at is starting to look a bit rank itself... Then we can apply another sticking plaster on top of that! And so on...

Point here being that whatever is going on with the wound, is going on with the wound. That we can't see it, because we keep covering it with sticking plasters, doesn't mean all is well: it just means we don't know how well or unwell things are.

Of course, there is the outside chance that in fact, the smell is coming from the sticking plaster itself; that the wound is healing nicely: we just need to change the dressing.

But we don't know that either, because we don't want to remove the sticking-plaster.

That is understandable. We probably have a *LOT* of sticking plasters covering a lot of the cuts and scratches we have picked up in our lives. And it is probably easier to deal with the sticking plasters covering the cuts and scratches that are entirely personal to us, than to look at the Collective Sticking Plasters covering the deep wounds in our Societies.

But that, I think, is what we're talking about here.

All the time that we refuse to Confront Reality, other people are able to exploit our wilful ignorance and denial.

By "taking off the sticking-plaster", by "taking our heads out of the sand", by getting ourselves *REALLY* informed about what is taking place in our World, rather than relying on others to tell us what is happening, we armour ourselves with Knowledge, with Understanding, and possibly even with The Truth.

But...

It takes a tremendous amount of effort, bravery and will, to tear off those "sticking-plasters". It is not easily done. It is a very scary thing to do.

And it has been immediately clear to me since you came back to the Forum, that you have done just that thing. And your PM fully confirmed that.

So really: well done. It's a very tough step, and you've clearly taken it. Very few people manage to do it by themselves.

"I used to have my head buried in the sand. I just recently took a peek, and am fucking outraged. I was content with knowing things are fucked up, knowing that's just the way things were, and I had to get over it. It is bred into our society, and if no one ever looks up to see where they are going , they will be truly lost, but if you never look you won't ever know. It sickens me that people are treated this way, and they don't even know it, yet they will fight against everything and everyone for a idea that isn't even their own."

What a very, very powerful statement, especially that last line.

So what do we do with our outrage? What do we do with people who will fight against their own interests, for an idea that isn't even their own?

Well, honestly, that is what I am using the OP to try and figure out. I have some ideas of my own, and we have a solid bunch of guys in the OP who also have some good ideas, and more importantly, the same attitude.

And of course, we have a few guys who appear to still be stuck in that zone where they are fighting against their own interests, and fighting for an idea that isn't their own... What would or could we do without them..?!

I would say, broadly...

We have been and continue to be the victims of a Divide and Conquer Strategy.

We people who live in the same communities, share the same language, the same cultural priorities, the same personal ambitions, the same ideas about work, family and friends... Have been set against each other. We spend so much time fighting each other, that we never notice who (or rather: what) we should be fighting against.

Take the whole "Right" v. "Left" political thing.

The correct answer to that contest is: We need *BOTH*, stupid.

We can't have one without the other. The political "Right" has necessary strengths that the political "Left" lacks, and vice versa.

I've often said that the "Right" is like the Father, and the "Left" is like the Mother.

The political "Right" looks to defence, to work, to self-sufficiency, to independence; and the "Left" is concerned with looking after everyone, taking care of one another, creating a nice place for us all to live, keeping it clean, safe and healthy.

How can we have one without the other?

Yet our energies, our time, our interests... Our personal identities as a whole... Are wasted on a senseless and unproductive battle over whose ideas are superior.

And all the while, people whose only idea is to become as rich and powerful as they possibly can, exploit our differences, take advantage of our constant arguments, and positively thrive on the fact that so many of us prefer to bury our heads in the sand, or refuse to take a look at what is under that sticking plaster.

And to my mind... It isn't about fighting or opposing those people who want to be rich and powerful; it is about bringing together those people who insist on fighting each other for no good reason or purpose.

There will always be people who want to be rich and powerful. Good luck to them. Who are we to judge? If that's what they want to try and do with their lives, who are we to say that is a terrible ambition that should be thwarted?

But we don't have to go along with them. We don't have to encourage or facilitate them. We don't have to allow their desire to become rich and powerful, to make us poor and powerless. They need us, a *LOT* more than we need them.

Simply withdrawing our support and facility from their plans to become rich and powerful will be enough. We don't have to fight them. Apart from anything else: they are too rich and powerful, if the poor and powerless try to fight them, it is obvious who will win...

So to my mind... It is just about helping people to wake up. We can't force people to do what you have just done, all by yourself: but we can help those who are stirring awake. And right now, a *LOT* of people are stirring..!

The best thing we can do, is to be as True to ourselves as we possibly, and publicly can be. We just need to lead by example.

Forcing other people to take their heads out of the sand, to remove the sticking plaster, even to ignore the propaganda and source and verify their own information... Is not really possible. In fact, it can be counter-productive.

The idea is to get people to think for themselves; to get them to break the habit of allowing other people to do their thinking for them. So preaching, evangelising, correcting, arguing and fighting to prove that what we think is right, and what most other people think is wrong... Is obviously not the way to move forward.

It isn't *WHAT* people think that needs to change: it is *HOW* people think that needs to be developed.

And I think the best way to do that is to demonstrate and share how *WE* think: that is, we who have taken our heads out the sand, who have removed the sticking plaster, who are thinking for ourselves.

And fortunately, the Internet has come along at just the right time to enable us to do that.

It's an exciting time to be alive. There are wonderful opportunities to meet and interact with people whom we might never before have had the opportunity to reach out to. I am hugely optimistic about what we can all build together, about where we are headed as a Society.

And I also recognise that it is going to take quite a bit of work to create what we all really need and desire.

But that's okay, because it really does seem like more and more people are waking up every day, and recognising that everything they thought they knew about the World, wasn't completely accurate.

And all that those of us who have already done the hard bit - waking up - have to do, is have the coffee ready to serve to those who have only just crawled out from under the covers!

It is going to be good.

And I'm delighted that you've got out of bed too.

Do you take sugar or cream?