Aye, I agree completely that the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) would have gone down without repealing Glass-Steagall.

I (regularly) cite Glass-Steagall and its repeal because it is perhaps one of the easier bits of economic legislation for non-economists to get their heads around. If not for the repeal of that bit of legislation, something else would have occurred; and something else, and something else...

I agree also with your macroeconomic analysis: that the underlying structural problem is with saving and spending imbalances. However, I do think that there is another level of analysis beyond the macroeconomic: perhaps we might call it the [i]meta-[/i]economic; that which looks at the theoretical considerations of Economics, its methods and utility.

Historically, we are in the Third Age of Capitalism: the Age of Finance Capitalism.

The First Age of Capitalism was the Age of Mercantile Capitalism. Developed into a science simultaneously by the Chinese and the Romans 2,000 years ago, it reached its apotheosis with the Islamic Caliphate and later Ottoman Empire that controlled the Mediterranean Basin.

Mercantile Capitalism subsisted on the differential between the buy price and the sell price. Since this was invariably a case of moving it from the market-place where it could be bought cheaply, to the market-place where it could be sold for a higher price, it co-existed comfortably with the Feudal Warlords who ruled the World at the Time.

Merchants paid Warlords a tithe to ensure safe passage through a Warlord's territory. The Warlord used that tithe income to build up his military forces; and used his military forces to ensure safe passage for the tithe-paying merchants. There was (apparently) only so much wealth in the World, and a State could only increase its wealth at the expense of another State. The mercantilist thrived in the gaps between States.

The Second Age of Capitalism was the Age of Industrial Capitalism. Industrial Capitalism built the British Empire; raised it from the status of a small island nation with a strong naval tradition, to the largest Global Empire the World has ever seen.

Spearheading the Industrial Revolution, Britain was able to drop its protectionist trade policies, whilst the rest of Europe was still arguing over what form of Government best complimented the mechanisation of Life.

An industrial super-power needed an industrialised military force; and technology - especially military technology - has always advanced rapidly ahead of the ability of the clever monkeys who invented it to use it without hurting themselves... Before too long, every industrial power in Europe had an Industrialised Military at its disposal; and it just became too much of an effort (too expensive...) not to use all that might.

World War One happened because... Well, it wasn't because some toff got shot by a nationalist in Sarajevo... Though that was as good an excuse as any. If the Archduke Ferdinand getting shot by a commoner signalled anything, it was that Industrial Capitalism was not suited to government by the Landed Aristocracy. The Means of Production could be created anywhere Capital could be deployed. The producers of goods no longer had to accept the conditions imposed on them by the people who owned and controlled the land necessary to grow crops and animals. Now "Royalty" had to come up with damn good incentives to encourage factory builders to bring and keep their inventions to a particular State.

Towards the end of the Civil War fought by industrial European Powers in the first half of the 20th Century, it became clear that Industrial Capitalists had fought themselves to bankruptcy. If the Wealth of Nations was built on its industrial infrastructure, that wealth lay in ruins. Or, in the case of the once mighty British Empire, it had been transferred to the one industrial power that hadn't had a single factory or power-station destroyed by enemy action: the United States.

The Bretton Woods system was the contract that the United States drew up to record the consent of the European powers to the ascendency of Finance Capitalism; the mechanism by which the U.S. would secure its domination of the World for the remainder of the 20th Century.

It was in essence and in practice, identical in every respect to an agreement to pay "Protection Money" to the dominant local branch of an Organised Crime Syndicate. The devastation of Europe and East Asia meant that no nation could afford not to sign up to it. And as old Empires collapsed, newly independent nations around the World all received visits from the Bretton Woods Mafia's chief enforcers: the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.