[quote=steelhed][color=darkred]The UK certainly has it coming.. Not because they deserve it, but because their policies have essentially equated to a trojan horse... There's been an AWEFUL lot of terrorist chatter aimed at the UK recently..[/color][/quote]

Oh, the UK deserves anything that the US has coming to it.

The UK these days is nothing more than a vassal state to the United States: Greek slaves to the U.S.'s Roman Empire. A cut above the average Roman slave or vassal of course, because the Greeks immediately preceded the Romans, and gave them most of their institutions: but slaves nevertheless.

Like Tony Blair before him, Gordon Brown does whatever he is told to by the Bush Administration.

I suspect the reason for that has something to do with the Sterling Economy.

The British currency is an anachronism these days, sandwiched between the Dollar- and Euro-Zones. It has no reason to exist anymore. It doesn't represent any industrial base, like the Dollar and Euro economies. All it has going for it is that it is a useful way-station between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro.

It's difficult for many Brits to appreciate just how much their country has become an international tax haven over the last 10 years. Ever since then Chancellor Gordon Brown relaxed the rules on non-domicile tax status, the UK has become the destination of choice for amongst other members of the Global Village, Russian Oligarchs like Roman Abramovich and many others.

So much of the UK's economic status depends on its ability to function as a financial intermediary in the Global Economy, that any loss of this ability would see Sterling become redundant as a currency. And at that stage, the UK would have to go cap-in-hand to the European governments and central banks, and ask to be allowed into the Eurozone on terms that would be dictated by existing Euro economies.

In other words then: no Dollar = no Sterling; for all intents and purposes.

Throw in a whole host of other trade and tariff dependencies, as well as a more or less U.S. owned mass media, and the British "government" really struggles to function independently of Washington, D.C.

And this is borne out by the UK being wedded to all of the Bush Administration's insane military escapades, despite such military adventurism being hugely unpopular in Britain.

So, any attacks in and on the UK, are really no more than we deserve, for not having done anything to rectify our status as America's bitch.

Although, it does have to be said that the British put up with a much more intensive, widespread and murderous campaign of terror than anything America has experienced, for more than thirty years.

And you know, rather than altering their entire way of life, and invading Surinam, Brits just got on with their lives until such times as the Irish got bored, and gave up trying to frighten us.

Americans could learn a lot from that approach.

Peace