In Reply To #80

In Reply To #64

For my part: I don't agree with Islamist extremist objectives, and I certainly don't agree with their use of violence to pursue those objectives; and, of course, I don't agree with American Foreign Policy objectives, and clearly, I don't agree with their/"your" use of violence to pursue those objectives.

What do you think America's "objectives" are in the Middle East?

http://www.newamericancentury.org/

Are the American/Coalition objectives better or worse then the Islamist objectives?  Is there an alternative objective you would prefer that the world pursue in light of Islamic extremism?

'T 'ain't got nothin' to do with objectives Foota.

The Neo-Conservative objective is to secure an American hegemony over the World, particularly in the resource rich Middle East.

The Islamist objective is to remove all non-Muslim military forces from the Middle East; and create a Pan-Islamic hegemony over the World, particularly in the resource rich Middle East.

But like I said, objectives haven't got anything to do with it: it's the methods I object to.

Bunch of you Americans want to secure the World for American principality: I've got no problem with that - good luck to you - try and stay out of my face if you can, but that's not essential.

Bunch of Muslims want to secure the World for Islamic principality: I've got no problem with that - good luck to them - with any luck, they'll try and stay out of my face too, but again, that's not essential.

Now then, let's take a look at both groups' methods shall we?

How do the Islamists go about trying to get what they want? Violence - usually violence that is fatal to innocent civilians who want no part of any political or ideological struggle.

How do the Americans go about trying to get what they want? Violence - usually violence that is fatal to innocent civilians who want no part of any political or ideological struggle.

And, I'll go you one more: how effective are those (is that) methods? Answer: not at all effective.

See, I'd be prepared to put up with a bit of violence, on either the Islamist or American side, if it looked like it was effective violence - if it looked like the violence was actually bringing about an end to violence. But it isn't, is it Foota? The more violence the Islamists project at America, the more violence America projects at Islamists; and the more violence America projects at Muslims, the more violence Islamists project at Americans.

The violence isn't working Foota: it's like pouring gasoline on a fire.

You seem to be OK with NATO objectives in Afghanistan only because the Russians and Chinese did not have the chutzpah to try and protect the Taliban after 9/11 through a UN Veto.  I honestly don't see much difference in the American/NATO/Coalition objectives and actions in Afghanistan and Iraq other then having a China and Russia giving us their "permission" which you seem to be confusing with "moral legitimacy".

No Foota, I'm not OK with NATO objectives in Afghanistan at all. I think all NATO troops should withdraw immediately from the Imperial graveyard that is Afghanistan. They aren't doing any good at all.

What I alluded to in my previous post was that the criminals responsible for 9/11 were holed up in Afghanistan. The International Community - via the UN - sanctioned military action against the Taliban government, in order to eliminate the threat posed to the World by Al Qaeda operating from within Afghanistan. That the action also temporarily removed an oppressive regime from the governance of Afghanistan, may have been a positive side-effect; but since it was only equally oppressive Afghan Warlords who filled the void while the Taliban re-grouped, I'm not sure it was all that positive...

The United States of America had no business invading Iraq.

It was and is a colossal strategic and geo-political error on the part of the Bush Administration, which has well and truly fucked America's position as the World's "Only Superpower" (not all bad news then... ;-)), and led to the destruction and displacement of millions of Human lives.

The Russians, Chinese and French did not veto military action against Iraq because they wanted to protect Saddam Hussein - and it is disingenuous of you to try and maintain they did. They vetoed military action primarily because: it would (and has) lead to an appalling humanitarian disaster; there was no justification for it under established International Law; and because the People of those countries - as well as the People of ALL nations except the United States - had no reason to endorse the unilateral Foreign Policy objectives of the Neo-Conservatives.

Setting aside Russia and China for the moment, I can assure you that had the French government not vetoed UNSC endorsement of America's Project for Iraq, the French People would have burned the Elysée Palace to the ground. Say what you like about representative government (or the lack of it) in Russia and China: the French have forgotten more about Popular Government and political enfranchisement than any American will ever know.

Jacques Chirac did the only thing that the French People would allow. Had Tony Blair also represented the wishes of three-quarters of the British People in the run-up to Iraq, then maybe he wouldn't be out of a job now.

The U.S. Invasion and Occupation of Iraq had and has no moral, legal, strategic or military legitimacy.

In case you are unclear with my personal objectives, I would like to see Iraq and Afghanistan live peacefully under representative rule without the need for US or foreign troops.

Oh, I know that Foota: it's why you and I continue our dialogue - because we are in agreement on that objective.

The difference between us is that you think the best method to achieve the objective of Iraq and Afghanistan living peacefully under representative rule without the need for US or foreign troops, is to keep US troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.

I think the best method to achieve the objective of Iraq and Afghanistan living peacefully under representative rule without the need for US or foreign troops, is for US and foreign troops to withdraw from those two countries.

I think you could agree with that.  So how do we get there from here?

Simple:

Declare a Global Human Political Union without national borders. Re-task all international military forces as a collective international Police Force, upholding the rule of International Law. All conflict throughout the World then becomes a Law Enforcement matter, rather than a battle between opposing human ideologies.

The American Government doesn't back either the Bloods or the Crips in Los Angeles gang battles: it sends the Police in to try and impose the Rule of Law on both parties to the Conflict.

Morality is subjective, ideology idiosyncratic: the Law is the only basis for World Order and Peace.

Why no U.S. violence projected on Saudi Arabia?

Have they racked up a series of UN Violations like Iraq and Iran?

The United States did not invade Iraq because Iraq had violated UN Resolutions.

If that were anything like the reason why the U.S. invaded Iraq, it would have to have invaded Israel first.

Saddam Hussein was beaten out of Kuwait by an UN mandated International Security Force; Israel remains the illegal occupying power in Palestine and Syria, despite an unequivocal (i.e. the US wasn't blindly supporting Israel when it was drafted and passed) Security Resolution that has been ignored by Israel for 40 years.

If the United States invaded Iraq because of its violation of UN Resolutions, why did the United Nations General Assembly or Security Council *NOT* authorise the invasion? And why did the then Secretary-General declare the Invasion to be wholly illegal?

And while we're on the subject, if the Chinese and Russian governments were so protective of Saddam Hussein: how on Earth did 17 Resolutions and censure motions get passed against Iraq?

No, as we've discussed at great length in the past Foota: the United Nations is simply the closest we have got to a representative body of all the Peoples of the World. And, as you are want to remind us, certain veto-wielding members of that body will do whatever it takes to protect their allies.

Is the Saudi government an avowed enemy of the US?

There is no Saudi Government.

There is only a dictatorial monarchy that practices the harshest form of Islamic Law in the entire Arab Middle East.

And indeed: the Saudi "government" is the *BEST* of friends with the US (& UK) Government.

Of course, the Saudi Arabian People feel a bit different: certainly 15 of them felt very strongly about it in the run-up to 9/11.

Saudi Arabia (with the exception of their oil resources) is not much different then the "moderates" in Egypt, Jordan and Pakistan - where we essentially have "friendly dictators" keeping a lid on their religious nutter establishment like the Muslim Brotherhood.

Bet you wished you'd kept that Iraqi dictator friendly: he was doing a *much* better job of keeping a lid on religious nutters inside Iraq than the US can ever hope to do... :)

Anyhoo, I *GOT* to pull you up on the claim you just made.

In the first instance, saying Saudi Arabia isn't any worse than the Egyptian, Jordanian and Pakistani "governments" isn't really saying much at all. But calling Hosni Mubarak, King Hussein, and the Dictator Musharraf "moderates" is just plain wrong.

The only similarity between all four countries is that they are all beset to one degree or another by problems with religious extremism; all four countries are dictatorships with little or no representative government; and all four are firm friends and fully supported by the United States Government.

You regularly bewail Totalitarians Foota, but here you've just picked four of the most (if not THE four most) totalitarian "governments" in the World, and you're trying to pass them off as "moderates".

Do you now see why America's Foreign Policy objectives and methods are not trusted by *ANYONE* outside of the Continental United States?

In a perfect world, I would like to see the people reject the Islamists instead of corrupt dictators keeping a boot on their neck or the West interfering.  I hope that the Muslim/Arab world will see how the Islamists run things in Gaza and decide they don't want to live like 7th century primitives.

What will make the Palestinians in Gaza end up living like prehistoric cavemen, will be the fact that Israel has placed the entire area under siege, and will not allow food, medicine or humanitarian access into it.

Want to see humans behave like animals? Stick them in the largest Concentration Camp ever created by Human Beings. Islamist ideology won't have anything to do with the explosive disaster we're about to see engulf the Gaza Strip & Israel: it'll be all about hunger and desperation.

We're the "Good Guys", so we have to wait until the "Bad Guy" draws first, and hope we conform to the "Good" stereotype in Westerns, by being quicker on the draw.

That is all well and good in Hollywood Westerns where the average citizen was armed with a gun.  In today's society (particularly Britain) the government has seen to it that only the government can protect the sheep.

No.

The US Government has seen to it that American Sheep are absolutely terrified of Islamist Terrorism; and seen to it that American Sheep believe that *only* the Government can protect them.

It doesn't work like that in the UK.

Which is why Tony Blair is now no longer Prime Minister.

Sorry Foota: but the UK Government has been nowhere near as successful in terrorising its own sheep, as the US Government has clearly been.

In a day of suicide bombers, we don't have the luxury of seeing them "draw" for a gun.  It is usually just a push of a button and whoosh - 20 or 30 lives are destroyed in a flash of a bomb. If you want to be a "good guy" or a pacifist and allow yourself to get hit first before defending yourself - fair enough.  But I believe the government has a responsibility not to sacrifice their citizens (merely to be considered a good guy) if they have the means and intelligence to prevent the attack in the first place.

Sorry Foota, you're missing my point - and totally mangling my metaphor.

The crime is violence carried out in anything but immediate self-defence. If a government has the means and intelligence to detect an imminent attack, it does indeed have a responsibility to prevent that attack. What it doesn't have, is the right to carry out premeditated and offensive attacks of its own, because it doesn't agree with the way that other societies are living their lives.

Protecting the safety and sovereign integrity of its own People, is pretty much the only observable purpose of Governments these days; violating the safety and sovereign integrity of other People, clearly is not, and is no different to what Islamic purveyors of violence do.

Self-defence I have no problem with, it doesn't violate my Pacifist principles one iota.

But listening to someone bitch about Islamist attacks in the UK or US, whilst the US and UK Governments are busy blowing the shit out of many, many more human lives in the Middle East, is a step too far.

If we want to keep the moral high-ground, we can *only* use violence in immediate self-defence. As soon as the immediate threat has passed, we return to more civilised methods.

Alright, look, try this:

Imagine I've just arrived on the Planet from some distant far-off Galaxy.

I know *NOTHING* about Human Conflict or contemporary religio-political affairs.

I see two parties to a Conflict, both using violence to promote their aims and ideals.

How would you go about convincing me that "your" use of violence is justified, and "their" (much more limited) use of violence is not?

(And anyone should feel free to have a crack at that. :))

Really Foota, it might assist our dialogue if you got the idea out of your head that just because I don't support "You", I must support "Them".

Peace