In Reply To #66

Don't get me wrong, terrorism is A Very Bad Thing - but not worthy of the amount of press it receives and resultant fear IMHO.

There you go.

The thing about "Terrorists", is that "they" are not capable of achieving any strategic military or political objectives, using the methods that define who they are.

Nazi Germany, in the 1930's and early '40's, had the capacity and the ability to carry out all of Hitler's most abominable intentions. German Nazis could and did militarily dominate vast areas of Europe; German Nazis could and did commit terrible acts of genocide against millions and millions of victims.

"Terrorists", on the other hand, simply don't have the same abilities - though some may well share the same intent.

The only way that "Terrorists" can be effective, is to spread Fear and terror (hence the name) amongst civilian populations. It isn't the acts of terror that have the greatest impact; but the THREAT of acts of terror.

I'm using quotation marks each time I use the word "Terrorist", because of course, "Terrorists" aren't all a single breed, or party, or side. "Terrorists" don't become terrorists, until they use terroristic methods. They can be: Islamic extremists; Basqe separatists; Tamil Tigers; anti-Castro Cubans; Irish Republicans; Fundamentalist anti-abortion Christians; Jewish Zionists; Right-wing militia groups - the list is, unfortunately, endless.

What they do all share in common - along with their methods - is that they have simply no chance whatsoever, of ever achieving their goals - whatever those goals are.

It isn't that we shouldn't negotiate with terrorists; it is that we simply don't need to.

Certainly in the West, any act of terror by any group, only alienates that group and diminishes its chances of achieving its end to virtual non-existence. It's a bit different in the Middle East, because one person's "Terrorist", is another person's "Freedom Fighter" - as the saying goes (e.g. the French Resistance, during WWII; and presumably the Stern Gang, if you are a Zionist - or not).

The only correct response to Terrorism and acts of Terrorism, is to ignore it completely.

You let the Police and Security Services get on and do their job - something they find much easier if they're not having to deal with hysterical civilians constantly spotting "potential terrorists" every time they see a Muslim (for example). Of course you stay alert, behave sensibly, take the necessary precautions; but the Terrorists' main aim is to disrupt the lives of those living in Societies that the Terrorists can never and will never dominate - militarily or ideologically. Disrupting our own lives - and our own Way of Life - because we're terrified of a few extremist criminals, is doing the Terrorists' work for them.

The British Public beat both the Luftwaffe and the Provisional IRA, by simply thumbing their noses at any attempt to make them cower in Fear and terror. The IRA gave up terrorism when it became crystal clear that terrorist acts simply weren't going to cause the British People to start pressuring its Government to sort out the "Troubles". Every Irish bomb that went off in the UK, just hardened the resolve of the British, and disinclined them from sympathy towards the Republican movement.

I have to say - and this isn't a racist or nationalist dig, just an observation - if the British People had reacted to Irish Republican terrorism in the same way as many American People have responded to Islamist terrorism; then we'd still be picking Semtex out of the rubbish bins at train stations every other day - and picking bits of glass and metal out of our own faces.

By a sheer accident of birth, those of us living in the West - at least in the G8 & Scandinavia - have the highest standard of Human Living on Earth. We don't have to worry about where the next meal is coming from; we don't have to worry about an education, or a comfortable home life; and - if we live outside the U.S. - we don't have to worry about getting sick.

That clearly isn't the case for the more than 5 billion other human beings living in the Rest of the World.

But that isn't enough for us.

Not only do we want to be happy living the High Life - living in the #1, #2, or #3 "Greatest Nation on Earth" - we want Everyone else in the World to be happy that we, not they, are living such blessed and charmed lives.

We just can't abide the thought that our otherwise idyllic and relatively safe life-styles, are threatened by anyone from the majority of Human Beings on this Planet, who have a worst standard of living than most of the cats and dogs kept as pets by Westerners.

This isn't an attempt to justify any form of Terrorism; but it is an attempt to try and help some around here understand why others despise "US" so much.

Strip out the bull-shit politics and ideologies (on all sides); deny the legitimacy and credibility that responding to acts of terror militarily (rather than letting the Police enforce the Law) provides; and reflect for a moment on our own crass greed and venality...

And we might just begin to understand why "We" are so hated, and why people with nothing to lose - and people willing to sacrifice what they've got in solidarity with those who have nothing - keep throwing themselves at the Walls of Fortress Luxury & Security.

Again, that isn't an attempt to justify or even sympathise (though I can already here the responses that will ignore that statement brewing up...); it is just an attempt to understand.

Clearly, going to War with "Terrorists" just legitimises their original criminal actions, as morally appropriate (to them) acts of defiance and resistance, in a War against oppressors. And equally clearly, using the military to fight "Terrorists" simply isn't working.

But more than anything else, what gives the "Terrorists" encouragement, form and functionality:

Is our own hysterical Fear, for our own precious lives.

Peace