In Reply To #126

In Reply To #87

Bunch of Muslims want to secure the World for Islamic principality: I've got no problem with that - good luck to them - with any luck, they'll try and stay out of my face too, but again, that's not essential.

That is quite a remarkable statement - Holyman.  Are you really saying that as long as Radical Islam and the imposition of racist/sexist Sharia Law does not effect your life, you are not bothered?

That is EXACTLY what I'm saying Foota.

I also said that as long as Neo-Conservative Militarism does not effect my life, I'm not bothered my that either.

Unfortunately, the Islamists and the Neo-Conservatives aren't just content to pursue their own anachronistic and counter-productive plans by themselves: they want to rope everybody else on the Planet in on them too.

So it doesn't look like I'm going to be getting any Peace any Time soon, does it?

What if the latest bombs in London and Glasgow are a "Rushdie Revenge" for having the temerity to reward an author with a knighthood?

What if the latest bombs in London and Glasgow are revenge for David Beckham's transfer to the L.A. Galaxy Team? What if they're revenge for Tony Blair's ouster and replacement by Gordon Brown? What if they're revenge for "The Sopranos" final episode?

Frankly, the motivation these criminals use to justify and rationalise their actions is of supreme irrelevance to me. They are non-state actors; they don't represent any cohesive Community, whom dialogue can be entered into to discuss their grievances: they are, as far as I can tell, just another bunch of notoriety-seekers, who wanted to go out in a blaze of glory.

The only difference between these people and the guy who carried out the Virginia Tech shooting, is that they didn't have access to more lethal and effective weaponry.

To even begin to consider their "motivations", is to give their actions legitimacy.

Nothing legitimises stupid and violent criminality.

Not even a "Project for a New American Century".

Isn't the attempted bombing at Piccadilly close enough to be in your face?

Very close indeed.

I had lunch today not 50 yards away from where the car was parked outside the "Tiger Tiger" club.

"Terrorists"? Fuck 'em. They're not going to get me to change my Way of Life or opinions. Not one iota. Even if they did or do manage to pull off their hare-brained schemes.

It's what I've never understood about the American response to 9/11.

The way you defeat "Terrorism", is by refusing to be terrified by it.

See, I'd be prepared to put up with a bit of violence, on either the Islamist or American side, if it looked like it was effective violence - if it looked like the violence was actually bringing about an end to violence..

Ah, so your Pacifism is not absolute?

Oh *MY* Pacifism is absolute.

But clearly, I'm not in a position to enforce my will on all the crazed and violent militarists blighting our species and Planet.

My point was that I'd be prepared to suffer ("...put up with...") a bit of violence, if it ever achieved anything. But after all the American and British blood and treasure spent since 9/11, it would appear that the threat of violence is only increasing, not decreasing.

Why, it seems like the more violence the US & UK projects onto our World, the more violence there seems to BE in our World.

Funny that.

No Foota, I'm not OK with NATO objectives in Afghanistan at all. I think all NATO troops should withdraw immediately from the Imperial graveyard that is Afghanistan. They aren't doing any good at all.

Should we have any "objectives" in Afghanistan at all after the fall of the Taliban?  Is it more moral and strategically smart to simply abandon Afghanistan again like we did in the 1990's while we watch warlordism and radical Islam take over?

Well, given that "you" used the Warlords to oust the radical Islamists, "you" can hardly absolve yourself of blame for their presence now.

Point is Foota, that "Nation-building"/"Democracy-building", is tough work; and almost NONE of it can be carried out by a foreign military force.

Having done all the "SWAT-work" (if you like), the US should have immediately handed the region over to UN Peacekeeping Forces, NGO's and Humanitarian organisations.

It would have been cheaper, and far more legitimate in the eyes of the World and Afghans.

You simply can't build stable and independent Democracies, whilst a country is under military occupation.

Morality is subjective, ideology idiosyncratic: the Law is the only basis for World Order and Peace.

Isn't the Law merely an extension of our morality and value system enshrined with coercive powers of the State?

Yes, the Law is an extension of our morality and value systems.

But before a moral or value can become enshrined in Law (in a pluralistic society, obviously), it has to be codified and defined. As soon as a moral value becomes a Law, it applies equally to all, and must be seen to apply equally to all.

Morality without legal substantiation, is subjective and ambiguous: what one finds moral, another may find immoral.

You feel it morally appropriate to say, kill 50 women and children, on the chance that you may ALSO kill 1 or 2 of your enemies.

I feel that such an act is morally abhorrent, and no better than the destruction of innocent lives carried out by "your" enemies.

The Law supports my view.

Why do you suppose British Common Law is so different then Sharia Law?

It isn't.

British Common Law is a subjective list of social requirements, proposed by the dominant social powers, and accepted by (most of) the Community that is required to abide by it.

Sharia Law is the same.

In substance, of course, British Common Law reflects the nature of a well-educated and privileged Society, which is at or near the top of the Human pecking-order; and Sharia Law reflects equally the nature of the Societies that practice it.

Values, ideologies, and morals matter.  Which is why you would have a hard time creating your "International Force" to enforce "International Law".

I had this very same conversation at lunch today.

There are values and morals common to ALL Human Societies:

Don't kill; don't sexually assault; don't steal; don't use violence offensively.

The only issue is equal application.

These basic values and morals are subjectively applied, based on whether the human being killed, sexually and violently assaulted, and stolen from, is "On Our Side" or not.

You'd be arrested for killing your next-door neighbour; but you'd be given a medal for killing an Arab in Iraq. A Muslim isn't supposed to kill a fellow Muslim; but by some interpretations of Islamic Law, it is a religious duty to kill non-Muslims and apostates.

Now believe it or not, in these matters, I'm more of a Conservative than you are.

As far as I'm concerned, the higher up the Tree the Law is set, the more simple and basic those Laws must be. International Law should not and can not be concerned with how many times a day human beings pray towards Mecca; or what humans are allowed to eat on what day; or how much alcohol someone is allowed to drink before driving a car.

International Law can and only should enforce those morals and values that are common to ALL Human Societies - and there aren't many of those (I think I listed near-all of them above).

Community Laws should be agreed and set by the Communities that are, or want to be affected by them, not centrally.

You use that model in the United States, with the distinction between Federal and State Laws, and County by-laws and ordinances. And I think it works very well - at least in principle, if not always in practice.

The higher the Jurisdiction, the lower the complexity and scope of the legislation must be.

The advantage of International Law, is that no-one is "On the Other Side". Murder and sexual assault are blanket prohibitions; things like adultery, homosexuality, women's dress-codes: these are all matters for individual communities.

Islamic Theocrats should no more be able to demand that non-Muslim women cover themselves up, than Westerners should be able to demand that Islamic women be able to wear bikinis, if they want to, within their communities. Such things are the business of the individual communities.

Do you now see why America's Foreign Policy objectives and methods are not trusted by *ANYONE* outside of the Continental United States?.

So we would be more consistent if we were sanctioning or overthrowing all of these regimes at once?  Don't you bitch because we simply don't trade with Cuba?  Where is the nuance Holyman?  We can't do everything at once.

"Your" standards are subjectively applied.

For your "Mission" to have any legitimacy, your standards must be applied equally, starting - of course - by getting your own house in order.

It's difficult to hear America protesting at Cuba's Human Rights record; whilst it operates and maintains a Gulag in Guantanamo Bay.

Peace