In Reply To #61

In Reply To #48

You advocated (and continue to advocate) violent intervention in the Middle East.

Actually, I only advocated for "violent intervention" in Afghanistan and Iraq.  All we are doing today is trying to keep Muslims from killing each other and trying to stand up a representative government.  Not much different then the police.

Alright... But you still advocate violent means to support and promote your ideology.

That's the equivalency - a logical/rational equivalency: NOT a moral equivalency.

For my part: I don't agree with Islamist extremist objectives, and I certainly don't agree with their use of violence to pursue those objectives; and, of course, I don't agree with American Foreign Policy objectives, and clearly, I don't agree with their/"your" use of violence to pursue those objectives.

I know YOU think that you have a moral justification for "your" use of violence; and I know that Islamist extremists think that THEY have a moral justification for their use of violence.

I'm just taking morality out of the picture for a moment, and considering practicalities:

One rule for some, and another rule for others ("the enemy"), isn't a practical basis for a Peaceful Society.

Oh, and whilst I'll grant you that the attack on Afghanistan by a truly international force, had all the hallmarks of a legitimate Police Action: the unilateral Invasion of Iraq - in clear breach of U.S. & International Law - was most certainly nothing like the Police.

You THINK violence is part of a solution to the problems in the Middle East.

I think empowering the majority through a democratic and representative process is the "solution" to the many problems in the Middle East.  Sadly, it sometimes takes violence to remove the Totalitarian barriers that cause the problems which creates disenfranchised people to resort to religious fundamentalism and terrorism.

Again, maybe in Afghanistan, you have a case: a case where "you" were backed up solidly by the International Community - to all intents and purposes then, a Police Action.

But whilst Iraq may have been governed by a Totalitarian dictator: actually, religious extremism and terrorism simply weren't a problem in Saddam's Iraq; though clearly, they are both major problems in Bush's Iraq.

Why no U.S. violence projected on Saudi Arabia?

As I understand it, most Civilised countries do already have laws in place that make incitement to violence or murder a crime (unless you're supporting your Government's Wars of course)..

Yet a civilized country like Britain continues to allow Saudi-funded mosques like Green Lane to indoctrinate and incite people to hate non-Muslims.  America does it too.

It's the Price of Free Speech Foota.

So long as these individuals are not breaking any Laws - incitement to violence; conspiracy to commit murder - they can not and should not be arrested, regardless of what they may have to say for themselves.

I touched on the idea of "Good Guys v. Bad Guys" in a previous post.

Being "Good" isn't as easy as being "Bad".

Being "Good" means we have to do a bit of work, make a few sacrifices, endure that which we might rather not endure - endure that which if we were "Bad", we would not endure.

We're the "Good Guys", so we have to wait until the "Bad Guy" draws first, and hope we conform to the "Good" stereotype in Westerns, by being quicker on the draw. Being the "Good Guys" means we have to allow anyone to speak their minds, no matter how repugnant or abhorrent their mind-speak maybe.

If we prohibit the kind of Free Speech that offends our sensibilities, and if we crack down pre-emptively on those we think may commit crimes: how would that make us any different from the Totalitarian "Bad Guys"?

You know *I* would like a World where nobody speaks of anything but Peace, Love and Flowers: but I'm not going to start chopping heads off, or incarcerating indefinitely, those who speak otherwise.

Society does and should arrest and punish those who incite violence and murder: those who just talk about how much they hate others though...

Well, we all have our Crosses to Bear.

Peace