[quote=Mullet post_id=9421 time=1694745343 user_id=58][color=#4000BF]Our system is badly broken.

I plan to run for Prime Minister with my new SPI front-and-center in the campaign platform (that's Stable Population Initiative, obviously).  That means we cap our population at its current level and figure out how to run a society without this ridiculous addiction to growth which doesn't actually benefit anyone.  There will be some thinking outside the box involved (child labour is certainly on the table, as is forcing rich douchebags to do at least one food delivery shift per week), but in the long term everybody will be thanking me.

Vote me.[/color][/quote]

Sensible policies for a happier Canada.

You'd certainly get my vote if I were eligible.

But look, don't be too downhearted. Canada has the same problem as every other nation on the planet ([url=https://www.qeh.ox.ac.uk/news/bhutan-gross-national-happiness-index-shows-increase-2015-despite-pandemic]with the exception of the Kingdom of Bhutan[/url]):

Politicians.

Not the individual humans who choose to become politicians, but politicians as a general dynamic in our lives.

I have met (and worked with) quite a few career politicians in my life, and I have to say that the majority (c. 8 out of 10) of them have been very decent individuals, with genuinely good intentions. But sadly, those intentions and their decency rarely survive contact with the Political System they choose to work in.

It really isn't their fault that they are unable to achieve anything effective or progressive. The System is archaic, anachronistic, and very clearly no longer fit-for-purpose. Not only that, but these shortcomings of the System are held up to be virtuous: "traditional" and therefore unchangeable.

You cannot be an honest politician.

Certainly not these days, and as far as I have read and understood, never at any point in History either. We have had some honest people in the past, with sincerely articulated ideas about how Humanity could improve its lot. People like Mohandas Gandhi, Martin Luther King, Eleanor Roosevelt, Jesus of Nazareth, and many others. But if those people didn't come to a sticky end, they were marginalised and/or obscured by the System they questioned (and therefore threatened).

I think one of our difficulties as individuals looking critically at the World we live in, is that we are minded to look at changing Everything, in one all-encompassing Change. This is problematic for quite a few reasons.

The most obvious reason is that this simply isn't how Change works. Certainly not on a Collective basis, and not really with complex, organic systems. It doesn't even really work at an Individual level.

Trying to... Change Everything All At Once... Is a doomed enterprise.

Too many Moving Parts; too many Individuals with Free Will.

With socio-political programmes, particularly of the ideologically-driven mass-transformation variety, you end up having to use force to coerce those who disagree with you, into doing what *YOU* know they need to do. And once you start using coercive force you generate Resistance, and sooner or later you start using violent force to crush that Resistance. At which point you become Everything you wanted to oppose and the whole Cycle begins again, only this time around, you are in the crosshairs.

This is why revolutions are ineffective. All they do is spin things around, turn everything upside down, make a real mess, and ultimately leave the dynamics of power unchanged. Different individuals will occupy the most powerful positions in the post-revolutionary System, but you still have a System based on hierarchical power-dynamics.

If we are looking to transcend the frailties of our attempts (so-far) to govern cooperation and collaboration, Evolution is a far more effective approach.

If you have a Clear Idea about how Humanity can operate more effectively (cooperatively and collaboratively), and you would like to see these ideas implemented, then your task is to persuade others of the merits of your Clear Idea. You will need others' support and assistance (their, umm, cooperation and collaboration...) to develop, share and implement your Idea. You will also need to be Open to the Ideas they have, prepared to incorporate their perspectives into your own. This is essential if you desire others to be Open to your Ideas.

Patience is also a key Virtue in our attempts to leave this World in better shape than we found it.

It has taken all of us, all of our lives to reach the place of Understanding we occupy as individuals. We cannot really expect others to fast-track their Understanding to meet ours; particularly if we are spending more time berating their Understanding of the World than trying to persuade them to share our perspectives.

Purposeful Change, truly Evolutionary Change, grows from the Bottom-Up.

The kind of Top-Down Systems that Humanity has been experimenting with since at least the time that Pyramids were being built all around the World, are not really working effectively anymore.

This is not an ideological, moral or even Spiritual assessment: just a plain observation.

It is Time for a Change in our Whole Approach.

[img] https://img.picturequotes.com/2/344/343539/the-reality-is-that-if-you-always-do-what-youve-always-done-youll-always-be-where-youve-always-been-quote-1.jpg[/img]