In Reply To #14

In Reply To #13

"You" didn't keep radical Islam at a "low boil"; "You" did all you could to stir UP radical Islam; because, at the time, actually-about-to-get-really-radical Islam was a thorn in the side of "Your" arch-enemy, the Soviet Union.

Especially once the Soviet Union had invaded Afghanistan (foolishly omitting to factor John J. Rambo into their strategies).

"You", incidentally, did the same thing with secular Arab Nationalism. "You" tolerated, assisted, promoted and used Saddam Hussein to take revenge on, and keep out of Soviet hands, the Islamic Republic of Iran.

"You", essentially, let the "radical Islam" genii out of their various and multifarious bottle.

And now "You" have no use for them, "You" can't get them to go back into their bottles.

Mostly, because in "Your" rage, "You" have smashed all their bottles.

There you have it.  It is all about "you" - meaning us.  Classic Holyman!

A bear can't shit in the woods without "us" (America) somehow being responsible - right?  Every Muslim/Arab problem (albeit their tribal patriarchy, misogyny, Jew hatred, sectarian hatreds, political corruption and rejection of modernism) can be solely placed at the feet of the West (namely America) - right?

Hah! Neat but futile attempt at a diversionary tactic Foota.

Have at you!

{thrust}

What you forgot to quote in your response was the preceding text. Here, I'll do it for you:

•••We••• had 20 years of keeping Radical Islam at a "low boil" only to see Islamic Fundamentalism expand exponentially in the Middle East, Africa and SE Asia.

Look, "you" can't fool me: I've seen "Rambo III".

My use of "You" in inverted commas was a reference to YOUR use of "We".

Since you were using floating variables, I figured I was just as entitled to.

But you know: if the cap fits... ;-)

Anyway, nice try, but you don't get out of it that easily!

Avast you!

{lunge}

And thanks for re-quoting the most salient points of my previous post; thanks for the emphasis.

Do you DENY that the United States of America was primarily responsible for arming and training the Mujahadeen in Afghanistan; with the precise (and ultimately successful) intent of destabilising the Soviet Union's attempts to annexe that blighted country?

Do you also deny that the aforementioned Mujahadeen had in its employ, one Osama bin Laden; scion of a wealthy Saudi Arabian dynasty, and currently the symbolic totem of all that the "War on Terror" is intended to destroy?

And do you also deny that this organisation, founded, developed and promoted with CIA funds, ultimately became the organisation we know today as Al Qaeda?

What of Iraq?

Do you deny that Saddam Hussein and his entire criminal government was in its entirety, the creation and chief Middle Eastern henchman of the United States' Government?

Do you deny that the United States provoked the Iran-Iraq War, and variously supported both sides in order to prolong the conflict, and at the least keep those two countries free of Soviet influence?

And do you deny that many of the worst crimes committed against humanity by Saddam Hussein were done so with the blessing and often complicity of the United States Government.

And do you deny that whilst continuing to provide logistic and technical support to Saddam Hussein's Iraq throughout the entirety of the 1980 - 1988 conflict, the United States of America also provided economic support to Iran through the so-called "Iran-Contra" Affair; a scandal that nearly brought down the Reagan Administration, and which implicated half the members of the current United States Cabinet?

Will you deny all this? Can you deny any of this?

Can you begin to see why no-one else trusts "your" judgement any more? Especially on matters that bear any relation to the Middle East.

Use whatever value you feel most appropriate to insert in the "You" variable Foota. It's all the same to me.

Whether you choose to self-identify with an abstract nationalistic concept, a morality-based framework for social co-existence, or just a bunch of guys who think that blowing stuff up is the way to create anything new or different...

But, like I said, if the cap fits, whatever cap it is, wear it. :)

I'm not saying that you or the United States of America is causing all of the problems in the World.

I'm just saying that "You" are creating all of the problems you keep bitching about.

If you want those problems to go away: stop creating them.

Peace