In Reply To #18

In Reply To #17

Do you DENY that the United States of America was primarily responsible for arming and training the Mujahadeen in Afghanistan; with the precise (and ultimately successful) intent of destabilising the Soviet Union's attempts to annexe that blighted country?

No.  But I deny the premise you are trying to get at.

What premise do you imagine I'm trying to get at?

The idea that the United States is now suffering blowback from the organisations - Al Qaeda - and nations - Iraq and Iran - that it did everything to create, and which were used when it suited the U.S. to do so?

Seriously? You deny that?

How is this for reverse blame?  Don't the Communists in the Soviet Union deserve all of the blame for radical Islam for invading Afghanistan and radicalizing the Mujahideen - galvanizing Muslims from Algeria to Indonesia to Jihad?

Not a bad attempt Foota...

But ultimately ridiculous of course.

The CIA purposefully and deliberately trained and developed the Mujahadeen, with the expressed intention of using them to destabilise the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.

Doubtless a noble and laudable aim in the first place, but now, well, it's just so damned difficult to get these radical Islamists to stop.

You certainly use this type of argument against the US in Iraq and Israel in Palestine all of the time.

Why do you not attribute the same jihadi radicalization blame to the Soviet Union?  Ancient history?  No one to blame?  Expect more from the US?

Nope.

No one here is trying to defend the actions of the Soviet Union.

Are they Foota?

You hear all my arguments against the United States, because you incessantly and instinctively defend the actions of the United States.

Even if the Soviet Union were still in existence, who here would seek to defend their actions?

Who here is trying to defend the actions of Al Qaeda, or any other of the blooming and uh, booming radical Islamists?

You interpret criticism of the United States as support for America's enemies. You characterise anyone in opposition to Bush Administration foreign policy as a supporter of terrorism and totalitarianism, do you not?

Now, here, faced with the incontrovertible evidence that the United States was and is the architect of its own downfall, all you can do is criticise me for not criticising a totalitarian government that collapsed twenty years ago.

And like I said: no here is trying to defend the actions of the Soviet Union.

Do you deny that Saddam Hussein and his entire criminal government was the creation and chief Middle Eastern henchman of the United States' Government?

I have to stop you here.  What are you smoking today Holyman?

America created Baathism and put them into power?  Where on earth are you getting your information?

See what you did there Foota?

I accused the United States of America of creating of Saddam Hussein and his entire criminal government, and using it to carry out its dirty work in the Middle East; and you respond to a completely different claim, to wit, that America created Ba'athism and put the Ba'athists in power.

And for good measure, you through a little dig in there about my personal lifestyle choices.

But I'm not the one having trouble reading am I?

Now, are you going to deny that the United States sponsored Saddam Hussein's rise to power, supported the coup that brought him to power, and then continued to support him right up until he went off the rails and invaded Kuwait?

http://www.1person.com/images/handshake300.jpg

Sorry my old mate, but it's "Your" chickens that have come home to roost.

Peace