So, let's be clear then: it was the Bush Administration itself that first began using facile comparisons between Adolph Hitler (and the Nazi Regime) and contemporary figures.

It was I believe Donald Rumsfeld who directly compared Saddam Hussein to Hitler, and even our own collection of dear Brownshirts, headed by young Foota, regularly try to equate Islamic extremists with the Nazis, through that absurd neologism, "Islamofascism".

So if it is acceptable to those valiant defenders of the Right Wing to identify modern-day figures with Hitler and the Nazis, they can hardly complain when they get a bit of blowback, now can they?

But let's be clear, there really is no point comparing the personalities and proclivities of World War Two figures, with those of modern day arseholes. The World was a very different place in the 1930's and 1940's, Human Social Culture was very different, not least because the Experience of World War Two dramatically altered the way we Humans look at ourselves, and what behaviours we are willing to put up with from our "Leaders".

Comparing the specific personality of Hitler (or Stalin, Mussolini, Franco et al) with that of a modern day political (or religious) figure, is like comparing the soccer player Stanley Matthews with Zinedine Zidane, or Babe Ruth with Darryl Strawberry. Different personalities, different circumstances, different Time.

Apart from anything else, the individual we remember today as Adolph Hitler, Leader of the Third German Reich, was viewed very differently during his rise to dictatorial dominance. Nowadays, he is a cartoonish, bogey-man figure, used to frighten young Neo-Conservatives into saying their Pledge of Allegiance every day.

What we can and should do these days, is consider the social and political systems and circumstances that facilitated Hitler's rise to deranged Dictator of one of the most advanced and "civilised" societies in the pre-War World. That is not only worthwhile, it is something all Humans should regard as a duty, to prevent a reoccurrence of the horrors witnessed in Europe and the World in the 1930's and 1940's.

But for the sake of completeness, let's consider the Rise and Fall of Adolph Hitler for a moment. I can't very well make or debunk comparisons, without first describing the comparator.

When we look back at Hitler's Life and actions, we do so with the unashamed luxury of hindsight. We are fully aware of Everything he did, and every action carried out in his name, and under his orders. But the Truth is, the majority of Hitler's most appalling crimes against Humanity, did not come to Light, until after or near the end of his Reign of Horror.

Yet when we are scanning the headlines to identify the World's next "Hitler", we imagine that we will identify him (or her) by evidence of their "Hitler-ish" crimes and propensities. Perhaps we like to imagine that had we been alive in the 1920's, we would have been able to spot Hitler coming a mile off. We would NOT have been taken in by him, would NOT have been charmed by him, would not have done business with him, and we certainly would not have appeased him.

Looking back, we tend to view Hitler's Rise to Power as a premeditated, orchestrated and perfectly executed plan that should really have been obvious to anyone who ever read "Mein Kampf". Funnily enough though, anyone who views it that way, almost certainly hasn't read Hitler's book. Because if they had, then they would think what anyone who read it in 1925 did: that it is just the turgid ramblings of a sociopathic convict trying to legitimise the reasons for his own incarceration.

"Mein Kampf" is no Masterplan, it doesn't even qualify as a political manifesto; at best it is an ideological screed, likely to appeal only to the self-righteously aggrieved. But then, I've not read it in its original German, so it could have lost something in translation...

Hitler in the mid-1920's had no better understanding of what he would go on to do than anyone else. He was just another middle-class revolutionary wannabe; if he'd believed for an instant the scale of power he would go on to achieve, he would have kept his more vicious and frankly lunatic ideas to himself, until he'd gained the dictatorial power he eventually did. His most radical ideas, as expressed in his treatise, only retarded his rise to power, ensuring that many potential allies within German Society kept their distance until a more convivial and mutual convergence of circumstances and ambitions arose.

Hitler was no great strategic military thinker, but he was a skilled politician and statesman. He knew how to manipulate the opinions of the German People, and he knew how to subtly evade and confound the suspicions of rival national powers. If Churchill and Roosevelt are the real statesmen-heroes of World War Two, it because they, almost alone in the national political spheres they were a part of, recognised the dangers Hitler and the Nazis presented. And they did so long before the rest of the establishment elites in Great Britain and the United States who were willing to overlook the more unsavoury aspects of Hitler's Nazism, mostly out of self-interest, but partly and shamefully, because of sympathy, and to a degree, envy.

The primary difference between Hitler's regime and the regimes of many Middle Eastern countries today, is that Hitler did not need to be as concerned by or as focused on domestic dissidents and enemies. Hitler's success was based primarily on the devotion and unequivocal support of the German People, who saw him as the only person capable of saving them from the degradations of the Weimar Republic. Far from having to rule Germany with an iron-fist, Hitler could count almost universally on the unconditional support of a sufficient majority of Germans.

The less extreme and unconditionally supportive Germans could be and were brought into line by the aggressive, moralistic and idealistic sturmabteilung - "SA" or "Brownshirts". The SA functioned as a cultural, political "Thought Police", and were able to barrack down any rational or logical opposition to Hitler's audacious restructuring of German Society and government. The "Brownshirts" weren't a secret police apparatus; they were an ideological militia, composed almost entirely of volunteers, entranced and enchanted by the power and glory Hitler seduced them with.

Right up to the "Night of the Long Knives" that is, of course...

By contrast, the energies of the most egregious and dictatorial powers in the Middle East today, are spent on suppressing internal dissent; in this day and age of Global Mass Communications, pretty much a full time job.

When Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait, he wasn't trying to win political support from the majority of the Iraqi population; he didn't need such political support. He did it firstly, because he could, and secondly, because he sought to expand his own power-base, and the power of the Iraqi Elite he was merely the head of.

Hitler had tried the coup d'etat route, and failed miserably. So instead, he adopted the "strategy of legality", which meant formally adhering to the rules of the Weimar Republic until he had gained power, and then transforming Germany's liberal democracy into a Nazi dictatorship.

And it is with Hitler's "strategy of legality" that we begin to see more exact modern parallels, not with Middle Eastern and Arab dictators or politicians, but with the current situation in the United States.

I stated earlier that President Bush was no Hitler; but he could very well turn out to be a President Hindenburg.

Hitler used President Paul von Hindenburg's great family name, and even greater stupidity and naivety, to mask his own subtle and (retrospectively) inexorable rise to power.

But if Bush is Hindenburg, does that make Cheney Hitler?

Well firstly, as I said at the beginning of this post, it is pointless to try and compare personalities over generations, and it is misleading to try and imagine that the "Next Hitler" would follow the same route to power as his (or her) predecessor. But if Cheney's behaviour and actions match anyone's in pre-War Nazi Germany, it is probably closest to Franz von Papen - Hitler's REAL enabler.

But now I'm being misleading, because I'm still focusing on Hitler as the SINGLE, cartoonish super-villain. There were a number of powerful individuals within the Nazi Elite, pretty much from its inception, united only by common self-interest. It was only with such a clique behind him that Hitler was able to succeed with his "Strategy of Legality".

I believe sincerely that if we keep looking out for the SOLE Neo-Hitler, whether in the Middle Eastern deserts, the White House, or anywhere else in the World, we run the risk of over-looking the activities of whole cliques of power-hungry individuals, all trying to achieve the prize of Total Domination.

Hitler's rise to power took nearly two decades, and he required the collusion and co-operation of many powerful individuals within the Elite of German Society. And of course, it also required the propagandistic brainwashing of a sufficient number of German People.

Germany was one of the foremost industrial and civilised Nations in the World, during the Nazi's rise to power. The Nazi's rose to power so subtly and insidiously, that no-one noticed until it was too late. Hitler "identified" many threats to German power and security, claims that were sufficiently plausible at the Time, to persuade many Germans to voluntarily surrender many of the rights they had within the liberal democracy of the Weimar Republic.

Hitler did not become Dictator of Germany by mass suppression and extermination of the German People; he did it by convincing them that they were under threat from internal and external forces. He used rhetoric that appealed to German vanity and self-righteousness; and he sold Nazi militarism as a vital - if distasteful - necessity for German security, prosperity, and yes, even Freedom.

Now, we all know about "The Project for a New American Century"; and we all know about the PATRIOT Act. What else is their to consider?

Well, if our parallels with the Rise of the Nazis have President Bush as President Hindenburg, and Cheney as von Papen, surely 9/11 (carried out by Islamic extremists, obviously) equates to the burning of the Reichstag (carried out by Communists, equally obviously...).

Following 9/11, President Bush used the September 2001 "Authorisation for the Use of Military Force", to claim that the Whole World, including the United States, is a battlefield in the so-called "War on Terror"; and that he has extra-Constitutional unitary executive powers to ignore laws passed by Congress. And as constitutional scholar and former Reagan-era associate deputy attorney general Bruce Fein observes, that one claim - that the US is itself a battlefield - is enough to allow President Bush (or any future President) to declare martial law in the United States, "...since you can always declare martial law on a battlefield. All he'd need would be a pretext, like another terrorist attack inside the U.S."

The 2001 AUMF was followed by the PATRIOT Act, passed (hurriedly) in October 2001, which undermined much of the Bill of Rights. Around the same time, the president began a campaign of massive spying on Americans by the NSA, conducted without any warrants or other judicial review. It was and remains a program that is clearly aimed at American dissidents, and at the Administration's political opponents, since the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court would never have raised any objections to spying on potential terrorists.

The other thing seen early on, was the establishment of an underground government-within-a-government, through the activation, following 9-11, of the "Continuity of Government" protocol, which saw heads of federal agencies moved secretly to an underground bunker where, working under the direction of Vice-President Cheney, the "government" functioned out of sight of Congress and the American People for critical months.

Meanwhile, last October Bush and Cheney, with the help of a compliant Congress, overturned the Posse Comitatus Act of 1878, which barred the use of active duty military inside the United States for police-type functions; and the revision of the Insurrection Act, so as to empower the President to take control of National Guard units in the 50 states, even over the objections of the governors of those states.

Indeed, the revised Insurrection Act (USC 331-335) approved by Congress and signed into law by Bush last October, specifically states that the President can federalise the National Guard to "suppress public disorder" in the event of "national disorder, epidemic, other serious public health emergency, terrorist attack or indicent".

Put this together with the construction now under way - courtesy of a $385-million grant by the US Army Corps of Engineers to Haliburton subsidiary KBR inc - of detention camps reportedly capable of confining as many as 400,000 people; and a recent report that the Pentagon has a document, dated June 1, 2007, which declares there to be a developing "insurgency" within the U.S., and which lays out a whole martial law counterinsurgency campaign against legal dissent, and you have all the ingredients for a military takeover of the United States.

One might think that given the general dissatisfaction of troops in the U.S. military, there is no real danger of soldiers and marines returning from Iraq turning their weapons on their fellow Americans. However, there is such a divide between the militant Right-Wing (and unconditional supporters of the Bush Administration and the Neo-Conservatives), and, well, pretty much the rest of the country; that should the Bush Administration need to form a "Citizen's Militia" or Sturmabteilung of their own, they are not likely to be short of volunteers.

And as an added bonus, most of those Right-Wingers that would automatically join a Neo-Conservative SA, would be able to bring their own weapons...

When on the look-out for the rise of the next Nazis, we shouldn't be distracted by trying to do an identity parade to match likely suspects with our cartoon-notions of who Hitler was, and what he was about. His personal frailties and insecurities may have created his racist and anti-semitic policies and actions, but at the heart of the Nazi Elite, was just the same old hunger for Total Power and Domination we have seen in groups of men throughout History, who have come so close to that "Prize", they became deranged by its allure.

No human in their right mind chooses to start fights; and no politicians with the interests of their citizens foremost, choose to start Wars where War is not required.

And the only reason why politicians try to make us frightened of that which really isn't very frightening at all, is because they don't want us to Fear them, and what they are doing.

Peace