In Reply To #10

Aw c'mon Foota...

Not a single comment about the shrillness of my response? Not a single reference to the pretentious piety or feigned indignation? Not a note to the petty vindictiveness imbued in every syllable?

Goddammit! That's my best attempt at imitating the kind of reaction you would have had if I had posted something equally specious and asinine from the Left of the Spectrum.

And you goddamn didn't criticise me on any of it!

The bloke who sold me that hypocrisy trap said it was foolproof.  ;-)

So sorry, where were we?

In Reply To #5

And of course, he completely ignores the fact that the "War on Terror" has made the World immeasurably more dangerous that it was before Dubya ever uttered that infamous marketing slogan.

Peace

Gee Holyman, I thought the world was quite dangerous for Americans living in New York and Washington DC about 6-1/2 years ago during 9/11.

Apparently, the World was a very dangerous place from some 3, 500 Americans living in New York and Washington DC, about 6-1/2 years ago, during 9/11, just after breakfast, for about 8 hours or so (though there is still a toxic cloud lingering over Manhattan...).

The ill-fated and disastrously named "War on Terror" has made sure that the Rest of the World now shares the Experience of that Terror felt by Americans, on 9/11, 2001; to one degree or other, but usually on a 24/7 basis.

And if the bit of the Rest of the World someone lives in happens to be in the Middle East, well, they're pretty much sure to be able to Experience endless re-runs of that Terror on a daily basis.

In "ReAliTyV!sion ™"!!!!

Hence, the point I was making.

The Pacific was far more dangerous in 1942-45 because America chose to fight back against the Japanese after the Pearl Harbor attacks.  Should we have not fought against Japanese Imperialism because the process would be dangerous?

Was that what this guy wrote in that piece you posted?

Sheesh, he's dumber n' I thought...

If your country or "Nation" is attacked by another country or "Nation"; you are supposed to defend your "Self", and / or take retaliatory action.

Yes, I understand that this is what is supposed to happen; and, in fact, what actually happened.

I'm just not sure of its relevance to the point under discussion.

We had 20 years of keeping Radical Islam at a "low boil" only to see Islamic Fundamentalism expand exponentially in the Middle East, Africa and SE Asia.

Look, "you" can't fool me: I've seen "Rambo III".

"You" didn't keep radical Islam at a "low boil"; "You" did all you could to stir UP radical Islam; because, at the time, actually-about-to-get-really-radical Islam was a thorn in the side of "Your" arch-enemy, the Soviet Union.

Especially once the Soviet Union had invaded Afghanistan (foolishly omitting to factor John J. Rambo into their strategies).

"You", incidentally, did the same thing with secular Arab Nationalism. "You" tolerated, assisted, promoted and used Saddam Hussein to take revenge on, and keep out of Soviet hands, the Islamic Republic of Iran.

"You", essentially, let the "radical Islam" genii out of their various and multifarious bottle.

And now "You" have no use for them, "You" can't get them to go back into their bottles.

Mostly, because in "Your" rage, "You" have smashed all their bottles.

I believe you infantalize Muslims and Arabs by giving their extremist voices credibility by accepting the illogical argument that empowering millions of Shia and Kurds against "secular Baathist tyranny" is an attack against Islam.

Oh believe me Foota, I don't infantilise the nature of their or "your" ideals .

I just observe their and "your" infantile attempts to bring those ideals into being.

Peace