Alright..! So this shit's getting real now...

Let's take it back first, let's take it way back... Let's take it back to The Wall Street Crash of 1929, and also, to "It's a Wonderful Life", the film by Frank Capra.

During the 1920's, there was no barrier between banks' retail operations (where banks took deposits from ordinary members of the public) and their investment operations (where banks gambled with money in the hope of increasing how much money they owned).

The 1920's were regarded as "Boom Time", because it felt like everybody had lots and lots of money; but in actual fact, it was all an illusion built on debt and bad-faith credit. The Stock Market appeared to be healthy, because money could be borrowed cheaply in order to gamble on stocks and shares. But when the Stock Market tanked, all those "investors" (gamblers) who has used borrowed money (on "margin") faced a margin call that quite literally sent many of them over the edge (of the building they happened to be working in at the time...).

What then happened is that the people who owned the Banks needed to use every last penny they could lay their hands on, and because of the lack of separation between investment and retail operations, that meant that ordinary savers' funds were suddenly exposed to, essentially, being confiscated by their Bank in order to pay for gambling losses.

This is the point in "It's a Wonderful Life", when the customers of banks and Savings & Loan (Building Societies) institutions all rushed to withdraw whatever funds they had on deposit, in order to avoid having their savings confiscated by their bank or the Federal Government.

What followed was The Great Depression, The Dust Bowl, The New Deal and ultimately, World War Two.

What also followed was the [url=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glass%E2%80%93Steagall_Act]Glass-Steagall Act[/url], a piece of legislation passed in the U.S. that ring-fenced a bank's retail operations from its "investment" (gambling) operations, so that ordinary savers would never feel threatened again, nor cause a "Run on a Bank".

And after the real War (WWII) culled a lot of the population of Europe, allowed the U.S. to re-tool as a Military-Industrial Super-power, and shifted the balance of Global Power to the dynamic of the (mostly) Cold War, all was well.

Until 1999, when the Republican-controlled 106th Congress of the United States passed the [url=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gramm%E2%80%93Leach%E2%80%93Bliley_Act]Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act[/url], which mostly just tore up the Glass-Steagall Act, and once more allowed banks to use Retail depositors funds as surety for a bank's "investment" (gambling) arm.

After the Dot.Com bubble burst, at about the same time as the World Trade Centre towers collapsed, the Executive Administration of George W. Bush (not the World's greatest economist...) allowed the Federal Reserve to set and maintain near-zero interest rates: essentially creating a free money supply.

And the conditions were now set for a complete re-run of the 1920's; only this time, the Whole World had become so inter-connected, with debt contracts built on debt contracts built on debt contracts, that the stage was set for the catastrophic meltdown that inevitably occurred, shortly before the end of the Bush Administration's tenure.

At which point, the Governments of the World were faced with two choices:

They could let the entire Global Banking System collapse - and take the failed system of Finance Capitalism with it...

Give the Global Banking System as much money as those Governments could scrape together, in order to avoid having those banks take depositors' money with them when they collapsed.

See, the reason why option 1) would have been such a vote-loser, is because it would have completely and utterly penalised the World's savers, whilst at the same time it would have rewarded the World's borrowers. Viz:

If you have a lot of your own money stored with a financial institution and that institution collapses: you lose all of the money you have stored with them. But if you *OWE* a financial institution a lot of money and that institution collapses: you no longer owe that money to anyone.

And that's just the sort of outcome that would really piss off all those morally upstanding voters who have always done as they are told by their government leaders...

So what all those vote-catchers did, was all they could do: they took the money from the savers and the borrowers alike, in the form of tax increases and cuts in services. The money they took, they gave to the banks in the forms of direct bail-outs, nationalisations, "Distressed Asset Buy-back" programmes, and mostly by creating a free money supply (a.k.a. "Quantative Easing").

Not a supply of free money to the Plebs, obviously, but to those banking and industrial institutions large enough to receive counter-service at the World's Central Banks. The idea being that these institutions would forward on the free money to the Plebs through cheap loans, re-inflate the Debt Bubble, and try and postpone the inevitable collapse of Finance Capitalism...

Of course it didn't work out like that, 'cos everyone was too spooked. Even where retail and small business loans were made available, no-one wanted to borrow: they were too busy retrenching - paying down their debts.

And rather than use the cheap/free money to invest in and expand business operations, the large corporations all did exactly the same thing: used share buy-back schemes to reclaim the stocks they had issued previously. This had the effect of sending prices on Global Stock Exchanges up to record heights, whilst at the same time industrial output, employment and economic growth all declined.

Meanwhile, governments had to start finding the money needed to pay for the Banking System's failed gambles. Cutting the benefits and services received by the Plebs (or "Tax-payers" as they are also known), was an apparently obvious place to start... (More obvious apparently than making Multi-national corporations pay their fair share in corporation tax...)

One minor problem with this was that a lot of the less civilised societies who had to accept these cuts, had the temerity to question why they should suffer for the Banking System's failed gambles. Some of them even took to their streets to protest at what they considered entirely unfair treatment...

The other, much more serious problem, was that actually, even if every government in every society affected by the Banking System's bad gambles cut every service and benefit received by every taxpayer and non-taxpayer: there still wouldn't be enough money to pay for Finance Capitalism's self-generated losses.

Sooner or later, those people who had diligently and scrupulously saved throughout the Orgy of Debt, were going to have to cough up their savings to pay for those people who had recklessly borrowed and gambled their way through the preceding decade.

This reckoning will come in two ways:

Central Banks will set negative interest rates. This will in effect penalise savers, since they will receive no interest on their savings, whilst at the same time having to pay charges to the banks looking after their money

Governments will impose direct, one-off taxes on peoples savings, confiscating chunks of it as required.

The latter is what is now happening in Cyprus.

And of course, those people with savings in Cypriot bank accounts would very much like to withdraw their money before they lose 10% of it to the Banks. And of course, under orders from the Banking Cartel, the Cypriot Government has frozen everyone's bank accounts so that they can't withdraw their money.

This, in turn, will make savers in Portugal, Italy, Spain, Greece and elsewhere in the Eurozone think..., "Hold on a minute..."; and if they've got any sense, will see them withdraw their cash savings to stuff into an "Under-the-Mattress" style "savings" account...

Feel like gloating? Feel a bit of [i]schadenfreude[/i]? Feel like this could never happen where you live?

Then you really don't understand how interlinked the Finance Capitalist System really is.

This situation exists only because the Gods of Finance Capitalism, and the politicians they own, refuse to accept that they have lost. They just think that one more Spin of the Wheel, one more Throw of the Dice, one more long-odds win will see everything back to normal.

They are gambling addicts, and they are pissing away the Family Fortune, and creating nothing but misery for all those they affect.

:>_