[quote=ClayMooreTPF][quote=Holyman2012][color=blue]Stock prices are going up because of Ben Bernanke's/The Federal Reserve's Quantitive Easing Program - QE2; and also because of the Fed's near-zero interest rate policy.[/color][/quote]

[color=red]True about QE. Not saying it's necessarily fair that CEOs can just sit back and let inflation boost the value of their company's shares, but it is what it is. My own bonus is calculated in pretty much the same way. The same technology as it was last year and the year before that, but the cost of materials and just about everything else in clean-coal-to-power projects has gone up, including development costs. Customers must therefore pay more for the same thing they could have had much cheaper last year. More inflated dollars in means more money for bonuses. It has nothing to do with the fact that I worked any harder. It's just the timing of when the deal was closed.

At any rate, some of the best-performers in my own portfolio have returns much higher than the rate of inflation, so QE does not account for all of the share growth by any means. I have a REIT that is outperforming everything, but its simply because its finally bouncing back to something approximating its real value from unusually depressed lows. I imagine this "correction" is a primary explanation for growth in quite a few stocks these days.[/color][/quote]

Just to clarify ClayMoore:

When I was referring to the Fed's monetary policies being the reason why stock prices are going up, I wasn't really talking about currency inflation.

QE2 is more of a bond buying program than a money-printing activity. Coupled with the Fed's zero rates, it has created once again a surge of rampant speculation on the Stock Market.

As I'm sure you know, most Hedge Funds buy stocks "on margin" - basically borrowing the necessary funds from their broker to buy the stock, in anticipation that the price of the stock will go up. And because the cost of borrowing is so ridiculously low, thanks to the Fed's Interest Rate policy and QE2, Hedge Funds are loading up on margin like their is no tomorrow...

[quote][color=green]Hedge funds increased their net leverage in January to the highest level since October 2007, as they took advantage of record-low borrowing costs to bet that the U.S. equity rally will continue.

Debt at margin accounts at the New York Stock Exchange minus cash and unused credit from margin accounts climbed to $46 billion, according to data released by NYSE yesterday. Hedge funds had $290 billion of debt from margin accounts in December, the largest sum since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in September 2008. [/color][/quote]

- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-24/hedge-funds-are-borrowing-most-since-october-2007-to-purchase-u-s-stocks.html

It is a consequence of this speculation that stock prices are rising, *NOT* currency inflation.

Of course, this is just another artificially inflated economic bubble, as disconnected from reality as the MBS/CDO boondoggle that burst in 2008, and as inevitably doomed.

But right now, it is all about Short-Termism.

No-one is thinking about the long-term health of the U.S. Economy.

(Don't sweat too much though, it is no different anywhere else in the Western World - only Brazil, Russia, India and China are doing any long-term planning at the moment.)

[quote=ClayMooreTPF][color=red]CEOs, however, do work hard for investors. They train all of their lives for a shot at the top. Their job is constantly on the line, the pressure is immense, they are evaluated for performance all the time, and they have relatively smaller windows of time in which to make their fortunes; much smaller than, say a sports champion or a movie star.[/color][/quote]

Not sure if you recall/are aware, but I work primarily with a Management Consultancy organisation based in Central London. Our key clients are senior Central Government civil servants... And CEO's of major PLC's (public limited companies - i.e. with publicly traded shares), including some of the largest corporations in the World.

Our role with CEO's is generally to act as a Trusted Advisor - a sort of part-consultant, part-consiglieri, part-therapist. In most cases, we are paid a retainer in the same way that lawyers and accountants are. In return for which we are available to offer advice and support when needed, on whatever areas of expertise we are able to provide from within our consultancy practice.

And behind closed doors - that is, behind a Non-Disclosure Agreement and protected by client confidentiality - most CEO's are ready to admit that half the time, they don't have a clue what is going on.

Many of them have worked hard within their particular organisation, and actually the majority of them these days do rise on merit rather than favouritism. But when they get to the top, they realise that being a CEO has little or nothing to do with the actual workings of their organisation, and everything to do with trying to prevent investors and share-holders sucking the company dry.

Majority share-holders - usually Hedge & Pension Fund Managers, and Venture Capitalists - don't give a fuck about what the company does for business. They don't give a fuck about long-term planning and development. And they certainly don't give a fuck about the wider economy or actual jobs for actual people.

All they are interested in are share prices and dividend payments.

You are absolutely correct: CEO's *DO* work hard for the investors.

But I think the question has to be: is this the most appropriate activity for a CEO?

One might feel instead that a CEO is the person who more completely understands the business of an organisation than anyone else. One might feel that he or she is the best placed person to guide and grow an organisation over a long-term cycle. One might even feel that the CEO should be more answerable to the people who work for and *WITHIN* the organisation, than to those who just wish to drain as much financial surplus from the organisation as it can withstand.

Most CEO's that I get to speak to express the dearest wish that they could spend their time properly managing their organisation. Choosing where to invest, improve, expand, to refine, stream-line and develop; rather than having to try and do as much as possible, with as little as possible, because "investors" want to siphon off any and all cash that can be freed up.

Of course, there are a few old-school investors who are genuinely in it for the long-term, and who respect and accord with the CEO's wishes. But the majority of institutional investors just want as quick and as big a return on their investment as possible. And of course, there are always those Corporate Raiders who actually want to bleed a company completely dry, so that they can strip its assets before moving on to the next ailing beast.

None of this is really the Perfect Paradigm of Business that we are supposed to believe in.

A CEO's remuneration package is voted for by a Remuneration Committee comprised of Non-Executive Directors. Those Non-Executive Directors are usually Executive Directors of other organisations. The CEO whose remuneration package they are currently voting on is very likely to be a Non-Executive Director sitting on their organisation's Remuneration Committee...

It's all about short term gain: for the Executives and for the Investors.

There is, literally, no interest in the Long Term.

[face_peace]