[quote=ClayMooreTPF][color=red] I invest that money with the confidence that smarter people than myself are looking out for the interests of that venture. As an investor, I usually am not looking at a term much longer than a year or two. Literally in seconds, I can initiate action to pull out of anything where I suspect the interests of my investment are not their first and foremost concern. Give me a good ROI, and I could care less whether the CEO is a blundering, but lucky idiot, or whether he's feathering his next bonus with short-term planning. I'm more likely to be gone before him/her. The market, as a predictor of the future with a far-longer outlook, is very sensitive to and unforgiving of short-term plunderers. Hence the short-lived reign and reputational destruction of many CEOs.[/color][/quote]

I think it is important to recognise the difference between investment and speculation.

When you purchase publicly traded stock, you are not actually investing in a company. The company that the stocks or shares represent received their investment just once, at the Initial Public Offering (IPO), when they sold a stake in their company to the Stock Market.

Subsequent to that, publicly traded shares become purely speculative, and in the case of dividend bearing stock, purely extractive financial instruments.

When you buy a bunch of stock from your broker, he gets his commission, and the previous owner of the stock gets paid their market value. The company that issued the stock in the first place doesn't get a penny.

Only when you buy stock during an IPO, through a rights issue, or from a secondary market offering can you be said to actually be investing in a company. Trading in shares that have already been issued is pure speculation.

As it goes, speculators are highly averse to the consequences of stock dilution that come from additional share issues, so will do what they can to discourage such actions. Conversely, speculators thrill to the prospect of Stock Buy-backs, since this can only push up the value of the stock that they hold. And indeed, this is what we are seeing more and more of thanks to the Fed's QE2 program and zero-interest rate policy.

And this is really my point: CEO's are not being highly rewarded because they are improving the long-term health or viability of their company; but because they are in thrall to the Financial Markets and are primarily engaged in stock-price inflation that is not a direct consequence of the way that they are managing their organisation's activities.

This is a very short-term strategy, and in the long-term, entirely counter-productive since it distracts from and invariably denigrates what should be the key focus of any organisation: Customer Service.

It is also counter-productive at the wider, Macro Economic level. By focusing on stock price and dividend payments, a company diverts its surplus revenue (and often its credit lines) to feeding the speculators, rather than re-investing it. With no investment, there are no new jobs. With no new jobs, and downward pressure on wages for existing jobs, the customer base dries up.

Even mergers & acquisitions - a viable strategy for growth - are invariably achieved using leveraged funds these days, rather than surplus cash. This because of the tax advantages that arise from being able to off-set interest payments against tax.

So the traditional - one might even say Rand-ian - model of a manufacturing company selling a portion of its equity in order to raise funds to expand is no longer relevant. Stock price is everything, and a CEO is far more likely to have a background in Finance these days, than in Operations.

"Expansion" becomes more about leveraged acquisition of competitor organisations as a competition elimination strategy. Fewer competitors further reduces the need to expand or innovate, justifying the lack of investment.

CEO's and other Executive Board Members are compromised into accepting these conditions by generous remuneration and share-option packages. They are, in effect, kidnapped and brainwashed by the speculators into neglecting investment and innovation, in order to extract as much money as possible from their business, and handing it over to the kidnappers.

[quote=ClayMooreTPF][color=red]With my own mercenary short-term investment philosophy stated, I do have to say, though, that there are quite a few instances from my own personal experience where the CEO and board are actually looking out for the long-term interest of the company and not just the next quarter or two. I used to work for Texaco, then ChevronTexaco/Chevron in natural gas business development. Both of these companies, as well as ALL of the oil & gas companies I have known operate with much longer time horizons than companies in other sectors. Although these companies - to the uninformed crowd with a political axe to grind - seem to be eking out massive amounts of cash in an orgy of windfall profits, the truth is that these profits are usually plowed right back into the business for new projects and acquisitions that may not see returns for a decade or more. [/color][/quote]

Primary/Extractive Industries are uniquely placed to withstand the predations of financial market speculation.

In fact, along with the Finance Sector itself, the weapons and armaments industry, and Pharmaceuticals Companies, mining, gas and oil companies represent one of the four foundational piles of the Capitalist Economy.

If it turned out that the Moon was actually hollow, and was in fact entirely filled with sweet, crude oil; and if an enormous umbilical could be connected between the Earth and the Moon, and all that oil could be guaranteed to meet any and all human demand for the next 10,000 years...

...Then *MAYBE* the Oil/Gas Industry would lose its dominant position within the Human Economy.

Short of that, we will just have to wait for every single drop of oil and every ounce of coal to be consumed before we see anyone in the Oil, Gas or Mining Industry answering to anyone in the Finance Sector.

Human Society is addicted to oil and other sources of Energy. I don't mean that Humans simply need Energy: I mean they can't get enough of the stuff.

Like your neighbourhood drug dealer, the oil companies are able to set their own prices, to artificially control supply, and generally speaking, do whatever the fuck they feel like doing, anywhere in the World.

From Environmental Devastation (e.g. BP & the Gulf of Mexico) to massive Human Rights abuses (the Saudi Arabian R-oil Family), if you own or control the supply of oil you are answerable to no one. Not to any government (you invariably own or are the government), not to any bank or financial institution, not to any shareholders, and certainly not to the Citizens of the World.

If for any reason your oil or gas company starts to look like it's getting a bit short of funds, you just raise the price of what you are selling. Where else are your customers going to go? You certainly won't ever need to borrow any money, and your shareholders will accept whatever stock dilution and dividend pay-outs you decide are appropriate.

Of course, like any intelligent drug-dealer, you are never going to price your product so high that your users start to think about giving up their addiction, but short of that, you will milk them for all they are worth.

[quote=ClayMooreTPF][color=red] Being in London, I imagine you would work more mostly with financial organizations, and they are very different business animals indeed. Trying to get these people to invest in projects like LNG is not too dissimilar from being the director of a re-education and re-indoctrination camp. They literally have to be de-programmed and re-wired to get them to understand and see the cornucopia they are staring at blankly.[/color][/quote]

Actually, we tend to steer clear of the Finance Sector, if we can avoid it. There's not a lot of value we can add there, and it is already replete with consultants, advisors, accountants and lawyers, all with their own theories on how best to make money out of money.

About 20% of our clients are Primary Industry; about 40% Central Government(s); 20% transport & utilities; and the remainder in the manufacturing and service sectors.

Generally speaking these are individuals and organisations that desperately want to focus on their core business activities, and would be happy to never speak to another Investment Banker or Financial Consultant for the rest of their lives.

As would I. :)

On the subject of taxation:

Taxation of earned income, whether personal or corporate, is always going to be a bad thing. It is a disincentive to ambition and achievement, and therefore Economically counter-productive.

Taxation of *UN*-earned income however, is a different kettle of fish.

I classify unearned income as that which does not require any effort on the part of the earner.

Speculation is like gambling on the weather. Individuals might talk up a big game about how they carry out research before purchases, but ultimately, they are trying to predict the Future, and there are just too many variables in this World to be able to do that accurately.

Fundamentally, they are playing Roulette, and the only effort required is that necessary to over-rule their intelligence, which is telling them to walk away from the Table as soon as possible.

Capital Gains from speculative bets, land and property rents, interest on loaned money and dividend payments on stocks and shares are all good examples of unearned income. Since this income requires no effort to earn, and since it is usually variable based on (many) factors outside of the earners control, taxing it more rigorously to compensate for a reduction of earned income taxation seems to me to be an obviously good policy.

[face_peace]