[quote=AlaskanViking][color=red]You have to consider though, that, in America, the word 'liberal' is synonymous with progressive and has been since the 1930's when progressives like FDR started using the term 'liberal' to describe themselves. They are more properely called 'modern liberals' in contrast to classical liberals like Locke, Jefferson and Coolidge, so when an American says "liberal" he probably means that of the 'modern' variety, while most of the world still uses the 'classical" meaning of the word, in the states, the beliefs and ideologies of classical liberalism are termed "Libertarian", which, ironically, was coined by a French Socialist and is linked with Socialist ideology outside of America.

I would classify the tea party as right-libertarian/Classical liberal.

Of course all of this is just semantics...[/color][/quote]

That's the Truth: just semantics.

And as I said to Foota: largely irrelevant to most people.

I mean, Back in the Day, the idea was that a politician and/or political party stood for a specific, definable ideology.

The Electorate weren't plugged into televisions 24/7 and only a small proportion of voters got to actually see and hear a political candidate in action. With little or no chance of being won over by the personal qualities, presentation and charm of a candidate, people would instead vote for what they read and understood a politician or party stood for ideologically. Whatever politician represented the ideology that most closely resonated with the voter, would be given the vote. And it was the ebb and flow of majority opinion from Right to Left and back again that fuelled changes in political parties and governments.

So in the days before television, political ideology was wholly relevant and not just a question of semantics.

Nowadays however, and more or less ubiquitously in developed, democratic societies, ideological conviction is virtually non-existent, and wholly irrelevant to the business of government.

At least half of voters will vote "Red" or "Blue", because they have [i]always[/i] voted Red or Blue (or their parents have always voted Red or Blue). And on the off-chance that their candidates in the Red Team or Blue Team do or say something that displeases them, they would never dream of switching to the Other Team. Rather, they will move to the "More Red"