I think that Humanity owes itself a Big Change.

Change is happening all the Time, but every now and then in History, we see really intense periods of Big Change, and occasionally, significant shifts in the way that Human Society conducts itself.

A definition of Conservatism is, "Resistant to Change".

Conservatism isn't just about resistance to Change: not all Conservatives are resistant to Change; and not all people that are resistant to Change are Conservatives...

And indeed, when the outcome of Change is uncertain, and the outcome of Big Changes are *REALLY* uncertain, then Conservatism in its guise of "Resistance to Change" is an entirely natural reaction.

And that "Resistance to Change" tends to manifest itself as *FEAR* of Change: Fear of "What is to Come".

And perhaps more insidiously, the Forces of Change-Resistance have a tendency to make us accept the Imperfect Present as preferable to the Uncertain Future.

And by that 'Slacks I mean: shouldn't we welcome Change? Isn't the Present that many of us spend a lot of Time and Energy bitching about due for a Change? Doesn't Humanity owe itself something better?

Now I know a reasonable guy like you will agree with the sentiment for Change, when expressed as I have just put it. But what gives you your "Ominous Feeling" is the sense that the Change that may be coming will not be a Change for the Better. Rather, as you describe it, it may be Change to a period of Economic hardship, Geo-political instability, and perhaps even Global Conflict.

But might I point out that if the next decade or three, or indeed, the rest of this Century were to become characterised as a period of Economic Hardship, Geo-Political Instability, and Global Conflict...

...That that would not, in fact, represent much of a Change after all?

Indeed, I'd go so far as to say that Economic Uncertainty (yay, even unto a Great Depression), Global Instability (perhaps even Israel being at War with one or more of its neighbours), and some kind of by-proxy fracas on the Korean Peninsula, pretty much represents "Business As Usual" - at least as far as the better part of the 20th Century goes.

So 'Slacks, *I* have a feeling that "things" are about the Change Big too, but far from it being an ominous feeling, it is actually quite a positive, optimistic sense that "Things", really only *CAN* get better.

The kind of unrestrained, unmitigated conflicts that we saw with the European Civil War of the first half of the 20th Century (and the Sino-Japanese and U.S.-Japanese War around the Pacific Rim) are, I'm quite confident, the kind of conflicts that can never be repeated. Global Society is too intertwined and the Global Economy too inextricably connected for any major power to want to risk War. Chinese, American, European, Russian, Indian and Brazilian business interests are too inter-dependent for Global Business Leaders and Bankers to permit politicians to engage in military warfare between these powers.

And as far as the Global Economy goes, well, the Whole Thing is rotten and on its last legs anyway, so the sooner the moribund edifice of Finance-driven, debt-fuelled, pseudo-Capitalism finally collapses, the sooner Humanity can set about building a new, more sustainable, more equitable and more stable Economic System (which will undoubtedly and correctly in my opinion, be built around the private ownership of Capital).

There will be some hardship, of course, for some of us. But we can't forget that we have lived very charmed lives in the West for some time now. And a more equitable distribution of Humanity's Wealth amongst the billions of people who live in China, India and Brazil (for starters) can only lead to a more stable Global Human Society.

I might be wrong of course (and those "Forces Resistant to Change" will certainly agree that I am), but so too might you be.

I just always keep in mind that another word for Change is "Growth".

And whilst Growing Up can sometimes be painful, it is, ultimately: What We Are All About Doing.

[face_peace]