[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]I get all of that Holyman.

But I am suggesting that Liberalism has been so entrenched in our societies (particularly Europe) over the past few decades that it is the Liberals who are trying to "conserve" their government welfare states despite the reality of the times. [/color][/quote]

Well look, first things first Foota, you don't seem to be differentiating between Liberalism and Socialism.

There are various definitions and interpretations of Liberalism, but they nearly all include a fundamental belief in ideas like free trade, market economies and the freedom of the individual from undue interference by the State.

Socialism, on the other hand, is a belief in the ideology of state ownership and control of the means of production and the allocation of resources.

Conservatism, incidentally, is the belief that traditional institutions work best and that Society should steer clear of Change, particularly radical Change. And generally speaking, those "traditional institutions" are institutions like governments, which have always existed to maintain Law and Order, and without which, Society will go to rack and ruin.

If you want to talk in strictly defined ideological terms, then the American Democrat Party ideology is most accurately described as Liberal Conservatism. And the American Republican Party ideology is - and has been since Reagan - strictly speaking, Conservative Liberalism. The emergent "Tea Party" movement is shifting slightly to the Right of the Republican Party, and can be accurately described as having a Libertarian Conservative ideology.

The U.S. has no Socialist element in its mainstream politics.

Socialism does feature slightly more prominently in European politics, but mostly in formerly Communist Eastern European countries (where old habits die hard). Western European countries however, are more or less completely governed by what are, strictly speaking, Neo-Liberal Governments, which are just a little bit more Centrist than the American Democrats.

But listen to us talking about political ideology Foota. We ought at this point to remember that we are just the 2 out of every 100 people who actually give any thought to political ideology these days. And really, out of the two of us, only you consider political ideology relevant to the operations of 21st Century Western Governments.

Fact of the matter is that most people don't give a flying fuck what political hue their government is, so long as everything is working, and those governments leave those people alone so that everyone can get on with their lives (that is a pretty Liberal mindset though, it has to be said).

[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]Even in America, despite all of the evidence we see around the world including our own massive debt, we have the Obama Administration and the Democrats doubling down on the policies that are sinking countries like Greece.[/color][/quote]

Alright, look, I'm going to take this through in gentle stages Foota. And if you detect any sense that I am patronising you, please excuse that, I just want to try and lay out the situation in such a way that it can be seen as a *PRACTICAL* problem, rather than an ideological one.

OK, the first thing to understand is that the problems that Greece is experiencing are the result of individuals and organisations in the (unregulated) Global Finance Markets *PREDATING* the Greek Economy.

The cumulative effect of so many traders taking short positions on the Greek governments ability to service its debts becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. As a result of so many financial institutions betting on Greece's failure, the ratings agencies (that are funded by the financial institutions) downgrade Greece's credit status, which increases the cost of Greece's borrowing. And the increase in cost of borrowing increases Greece's likelihood of defaulting, thereby rewarding the short positions and validating the downgrade in Greece's credit status.

Now of course, the Germans could have stepped in at any point and underwritten its fellow Eurozone member-state, but then the Germans dearly want to see the Euro devalued in order to increase their exports, and throwing Greece to the Wolves is a small price to pay for that, isn't it.

So let's take a close look at Deficit Spending shall we.

Now I know you've heard from the media outlets you tune into that, "Deficit Spending is Bad, mm'kay", but you've really got to consider the mechanics of the situation, and really consider if there is any alternative.

[quote][color=darkblue][b]Private pay shrinks to historic lows[/b]

[i]Paychecks from private business shrank to their smallest share of personal income in U.S. history during the first quarter of this year, a USA TODAY analysis of government data finds.  At the same time, government-provided benefits - from Social Security, unemployment insurance, food stamps and other programs - rose to a record high during the first three months of 2010.

[b]Those records reflect a long-term trend accelerated by the recession and the federal stimulus program to counteract the downturn. The result is a major shift in the source of personal income from private wages to government programs[/b][/color][/quote]

Of course.

In a recession, private sector businesses go bust and put lots of people out of work.

Then, because there are more people looking for work, those private sector corporations still in business can afford to pay their staff less. That's the Market Economics of Supply and Demand for you.

Now, the problem is that with more and more people becoming unemployed, and with those people who are still employed earning less, where does all the money come from to buy the stuff that the Private Sector is selling?

The answer is: it doesn't come from anywhere; there is no money to buy what the Private Sector is selling.

Unemployed people don't have money to spend on consumer goods or services. Private Sector employees who are earning less money don't have any to spare to spend on consumer goods; especially if they are sensible, because they will be paying off their debts and putting money to one side, just in case they end up unemployed too.

And because no-one is spending any money on Private Sector goods and services, more and more Private Sector businesses go bust, increasing the number of unemployed people looking for work, and decreasing the wages of those people who are still in work.

Now in a more normal recession, Private Sector Enterprise might look to borrow money from Banks, either to tide over operations until business picks up, or to launch a brand new venture, if they can convince a lender that a recession is the best time to start up a new business.

But even that isn't an option in this "Special Recession", is it.

So how does one break out of this recessionary cycle?

By coming up with such a fantastic new product, service or business scheme, that people who have got next to no money, or who have an emergency fund to hand will be so bowled over by the novelty of the new business that they *WILL* spend what little money they have on it?

Of course not.

Or is it that because the abundant labour is now so cheap, manufacturers of goods and providers of services will lower their prices and this will encourage consumers to start spending again?

No. Because the unemployed, and those who fear being unemployed (and who aren't getting pay rises or bonuses) are only spending on essential goods and services, and/or paying down their debts. And that won't change until they can be convinced that the Economy is recovering. And they will only be convinced of that once they can get a job and their incomes start rising again.

So before I go on, I'll pause here Foota and ask:

[color=blue][b]Given the above, and completely eliminating government deficit spending as an option, how would *YOU* go about breaking an Economy out of a Recessionary Cycle?[/b][/color]

(And remember, this is a practical, economic problem, not an ideological or moral one.)

...

Alright, here's how Government Deficit Spending works:

Government Deficit Spending creates demand for employment, goods and services.

Demand generates spending.

Spending generates economic activity.

Economic activity generates growth.

Growth generates jobs and increases government revenues.

Increased government revenues reduce deficits and ends recessions.

If the Private Sector can't raise enough revenues or credit to expand business and create jobs, who else but the Public Sector can?

Look at the Republic of Ireland as an example.

In 2008, Ireland began cutting back deficit spending when its banking crisis began to spread. At that point, its budget deficit as a percentage of GDP was 7.3%. The Irish Economy promptly contracted by 10%, and the deficit exploded to 14.3% of GDP.

The Public Sector cutting back on jobs and reducing wages at the same time as the Private Sector is doing the same thing creates higher unemployment, bigger deficits, greater economic contraction, and more suffering.

So the question now Foota, is:

[color=blue][b]Is there any possible alternative to Deficit Spending, to bring an Economy out of Recession and prevent it from going into Depression?[/b][/color]

However, not all deficit spending is by nature good.

Keynes never advocated bailing out financial institutions run by criminals, and yet that has been the policy of the Federal Reserve, the Bank of England and the European Central Banks since Day 1.

Since the Banking Crisis kicked off under the previous Presidential Administration, more than $15 trillion has been donated by Worldwide governments (mostly the U.S.) to poor, sick, destitute Banks.

In some cases (like the U.K.), those Banks were bought outright by the government on behalf of the taxpayer (Nationalised, in other words); and in other cases (particularly in the U.S.), the debts of those Banks was simply transferred to their host Nation.

And now, having given all of that money to the Banks, governments around the World are having to borrow money in order to provide services that their citizens have come to expect in return for the taxes that they have been paying.

And the reason why Greek citizens and people in other European countries are rioting in the streets has nothing to do with political ideologies. It in fact, has everything to do with those people asking, why, since the Banks were automatically given billions and billions to bail them out from their reckless, probably criminal and certainly immoral behaviour, is it that ordinary tax-payers are now facing futures of enforced austerity?

These people may not give a monkey's about political ideology Foota: but they *KNOW* when they are being shafted.

[face_peace]