I don't suppose it'll make any difference, but..:

The *CHRIST*-mass is a religious festival that co-opted traditional European Winter Solstice festivals in the first place anyway.

Christmas has nothing to do with the actual date of Jesus' birthday; and everything to do with the birth date of Mithras, the Roman God of the Bull Cult. But coming only 4 days after the Winter Solstice in the Northern Hemisphere, Christmas also supplanted many different cultures' Winter Festivities.

Same with Easter.

Ever wondered why Easter is called Easter?

The name Easter has no more to do with Jesus than chocolate eggs and little bunnies.

It actually derives from the name of the Anglo-Saxon Goddess of the Dawn, Eostre. The hormone oestrogen shares the same etymology.

Easter *IS* all about Eggs (and Women): not political dissidents being nailed to a tree by an imperial persecutor.

Point is that we shouldn't forget who is imposing what on whom. As much as we defend the right to call the Catholic Mass day for Jesus Christ, Christmas; we are defending the desire of Christians to maintain a monopoly on a day marked by virtually every human culture as a Feast Day.

As the father of an 8-year old boy at a multi-ethnic, multi-cultural school, I'm not so sure I want *ANY* particular Religion getting their teeth into him. Even if it is only to normalise the Romano-Christian dominance of the Solar Calendar.

On the other hand, I'd like him to have the opportunity to learn about not just his own heritage, but the different cultural backgrounds of others he will encounter in his Life.

I'd like him to celebrate the Winter Holidays/Festivals with his friends, and just don't see a problem with schools being allowed to do that in a non-denominational way.

There are plenty of faith-based state and private schools available. If parents have a real desire for their children to learn exclusively about Christian festivals, then those parents can start going to church every Sunday, to qualify for admittance to Christian Schools.

Otherwise, it's not that I'd want to see all reference to Christian holidays taken out of my son's school; but I see no reason why it should be given pre-eminence.

Peace