In Reply To #111

In Reply To #101

Sorry not to have answered your post, which, despite its usual, er, generous length, did have some points I would have liked to address in more detail. However, the wife had me responding to numerous requests today, and, truth be told, I find it hard to respond in kind to each of your points. I do read your posts though, particularly when I see my name hidden in it somewhere. So, forgive me if I just pick and choose certain points in which to do battle.

No problem. :)

Forgive ME for not responding sooner as well: kinda busy at work at the moment...

And apologies also for the length of my post to you also. When I read your previous post, two or three ideas sprang clearly to mind; but as I began to write, I ended up just following the ideas to see where they ended up.

Which isn't unusual - like you say - and meant that my original points got lost in the fog...

Now that I've got a few moments, I'd like to just address your observations of American psychology post the 9/11 attacks. Generally, I can see why you think that Americans were acting out of a sense of anger. To some extent we were in the first weeks following 9/11. However, I must disagree that Bush had much to do with whipping up the sense of American outrage we all felt to lash out at Afghanistan.

Sorry, the point I was trying to make about this must have got lost in the fog: I'll try and elucidate more briefly and directly.

The Collective Emotion experienced *GENERALLY* by Americans, following 9/11, was initially one of Anger. Anger is a natural (and almost inevitable) response to the sudden and tragic death of a loved one, or fellow countrymen/women. The point I also made was that Anger is a NATURAL response to the sudden and tragic death of Loved Ones (or fellow nationals). Anger heightens our senses, and gives us the Emotional strength necessary to eliminate or neutralise whatever threat killed those we care about.

The *NATURAL* Anger experienced by Americans generally, following 9/11, *WAS* expressed, naturally and effectively, through the attack on Afghanistan. Afghanistan is where the threat resided; Afghanistan was attacked; and the immediate and IDENTIFIABLE threat was neutralised. The attack on Afghanistan was enough to vent the anger felt by Americans about 9/11. After venting its Anger, America, generally, should have withdrawn to heal itself Emotionally, and of course, protect itself from danger in similar form to the 9/11 attacks.

This is the process and purpose of grief.

BUT, instead of being allowed to feel less-unsafe, less anger and more grief; Americans were compelled by their government to feel LESS safe than they had before 9/11, LESS safe than they were before the SUCCESSFUL attack on Afghanistan, LESS safe than before all the security measures were put in place to prevent another 9/11. And the reason why the U.S. Government made its Citizens feel less safe, despite ALL the EFFECTIVE practical responses to 9/11: was because it wanted U.S. Citizens to feel and stay angry at Saddam Hussein.

So what should have been a calm and contemplative period for American Society - following 9/11; and the SUCCESSFUL attack on Afghanistan - became a period of Anger, Hostility, and Barbarity, directed at Saddam Hussein and the Iraqi People. This Anger and Hostility, was used by the Bush Administration (who artificially created those Collective Emotions) to provide support and justification for its Invasion of Iraq and the subsequent Occupation. The Bush Administration was not directly involved in perpetrating or deliberately not preventing the 9/11 attacks; but the Bush Administration DID hi-jack American public sentiment about 9/11, and channel it into support for the Invasion of Iraq - something it continues to do.

One final point, interwoven in your post, that I still find interesting to this day is that you still continue to completely neglect the fact that practically every world leader, long before Bush even began his administration, was calling for the removal of Saddam.

Quite so.

Many of that many of those calls from World Leaders "LONG before Bush even began his administration", were made during the period that the U.S. Government was enabling and supporting Saddam Hussein's regime. So you can count stuff from before 1990 if you like, but that won't reflect well on the United States (Foota's got a black & white photo of Chirac and Saddam Hussein, from the 50's or 60's I think; *I* have one of Donald Rumsfeld and Hussein, IN COLOUR, and from as recently as 1983...).

No, you have to start the clock of International Disapproval of Saddam Hussein, no earlier than his Invasion of Kuwait; THAT'S when the U.S. changed its previously favourable attitude towards Saddam Hussein, to the attitude shared by "practically every world leader". From that point onwards, whilst it was made clear at the time, by such luminaries such as President George H.W. Bush, and ex-Secretary of the Defence, Richard Cheney: only a COMPLETE IMBECILE or MORON would think that an Invasion of Iraq was a solution to the "Saddam Hussein Problem". Which didn't of course mean that a perfect alternative solution had been discovered or implemented - murderous sanctions can and do kill as many, if not more people as suicide bombs. It just meant that *EVERYONE* knew what a disaster an Invasion of Iraq would unleash on the Middle East and the World.

The status quo was considered MORE FAVOURABLE than an Invasion of Iraq.

By anyone with half a brain...

The problem with the Invasion of Iraq was not military, but political. From whence would the legitimacy for an Invasion of Iraq come?

This is how President George H.W. Bush described the situation:

Whose life would be on my hands as the commander-in-chief because I, unilaterally, went beyond the international law, went beyond the stated mission, and said we're going to show our macho?" he asked. "We're going into Baghdad. We're going to be an occupying power -- America in an Arab land -- with no allies at our side. It would have been disastrous."

Bush said, "We don't gain the size of our victory by how many innocent kids running away -- even though they're bad guys -- that we can slaughter. ... We're American soldiers; we don't do business that way."

"Am I happy that S.O.B. is still there?" Bush asked, then answered, "No."

It wasn't that the previous President Bush didn't think his military capable of doing the job; it was that he knew there was NO LEGITIMACY for such an Invasion. Now you may dismiss that as irrelevant, because clearly there was a MORAL legitimacy for the Invasion - at least if half the stories about Hussein were even close to being true. But morality doesn't count for anything in International Law, and there's a good reason for that.

If the United States (as an example of a leading Human Nation) felt or feels so strongly about the MORAL requirements for an individual or regime to be an internationally recognised Head of State or Government, then all it needs do, is propose an International Treaty mandating what those moral requirements are. Other nations will take a vote on that Treaty Proposal (IN THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY; NOT the Security Council, so there would be no power wielding veto) and it will or will not pass into International Law; to be upheld in whatever way the World sees fit.

But the reason the U.S. can not do this, is because of the number of individuals and governments in the World it continues to support, who fall WELL short of the moral standard that say, Saddam Hussein was held against. An Internationally-agreed, and as-far-as-possible, Internationally LEGAL Treaty, outlawing the crimes that Saddam Hussein was accused of, would easily and quickly implicate the regimes of (amongst others): Saudi Arabia; Egypt; Jordan; Israel; Uzbekistan; Pakistan; and Libya; probably Turkey and the United States of America as well. If the Bush Administration wanted Saddam Hussein to be legitimately punished by the International Community, for on-going crimes; then it could have framed a treaty that outlawed some or all of Hussein's on-going behaviour. This would have formed the basis for a LEGITIMATE Invasion of Iraq. But getting such a Treaty passed into International Law would immediately implicate so many of the U.S.'s other, still-obedient henchmen, there is no way the U.S. could do it.

So, based on a spurious moral justification that would have us believe that Iraq would have been invaded, if it had been a fruit-exporting island in the South Pacific; and without *ANY* legality whatsoever: President George Bush II, did in 2003, exactly what his father counselled against doing in 1994; and created EXACTLY the situation his father predicted.

It isn't that *I*, like every other decent human being, didn't want to see Saddam Hussein removed power, and his days end in ignominy; it was that I KNEW that couldn't and shouldn't be done in a way that would cause more problems than it would solve.

We ALL believed in the existence of the WMDs. Vast stocks of them, in fact. It was total goupthink.

No Clay Moore.

*I* never believed for a second in the existence of the WMD's - and as you can imagine, I have EXTENSIVE archives that are testament to that fact.

It was immediately apparent to me from the outset that if Iraq actually DID possess WMD's, then there was NO way the Bush Administration would attack.

I would have thought that was obvious.

Yet, somehow, you continue to perpetuate the lie that "Bush lied". It is evidently now part of your very own DNA. I find it both fascinating and disturbing that this gross mass injustice is repeatedly leveled on the man. I know, for a fact, that you have been presented with the evidence of this injustice so many times. Yet, you continue to ignore the evidence as if it just wasn't there.

Honestly Clay Moore..?

In the Grand Scheme of Things, Bush is merely a bit-part player; a well-placed Extra with good family connections.

THE Lie that has been perpetrated on you, and on the American Public as a whole, is much, much greater than a single human being.

I personally believe that President George W. Bush sincerely believes *EVERYTHING* he has ever said.

But that's Method Acting for you.

Clearly, Bush has no facility for discernment, reflection or contemplation: he simply does not question the information he is given.

He is a marionette; a puppet-figure; a clown.

It isn't that the American Public were told that Saddam Hussein had WMD's (or was linked to 9/11) that was THE Lie; it was that they were told how CERTAIN the Bush Administration was that those WMD's existed.

THAT is THE Lie: the degree of certainty with which the Bush Administration convinced the American Public of the threat posed to it by Saddam Hussein.

(No offence intended or taken :))

Peace