In Reply To #158

In Reply To #155

*EVERYONE* knew what a disaster an Invasion of Iraq would unleash on the Middle East and the World.

The status quo was considered MORE FAVOURABLE than an Invasion of Iraq.

By anyone with half a brain...

Despite the fact that nearly *EVERYONE* was quite glad to see the back of Saddam when it happened, the status quo was clearly UNACCEPTABLE.

No.

Clearly the status quo was LESS UNACCEPTABLE than a unilateral, illegal and illegitimate Invasion of Iraq by the United States.

This was precisely what President George Bush senior stated; and was also clearly stated by the International Community, through their refusal to back the U.S. Invasion.

The reasons given for opposition to the Invasion of Iraq, were that such an Invasion would take a bad matter, and make it worse.

And that is clearly what has happened.

Otherwise, the UN wouldn't have been so active in churning out meaningless, but increasingly threatening, resolutions.

Those resolutions that the U.N. churned out, were created, maintained and enforced by the United States of America.

Any attempt to overturn the sanctions against Iraq during the 1990's, was blocked by the United States.

When asked, the former U.S. Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright, stated that the 500,000 Iraqi children by the U.S./U.K.-sponsored sanctions regime against Iraq, was "acceptable".

Now don't get me wrong Clay Moore, I was as opposed to the sanction regime, as I was opposed to the Invasion, and AM opposed to the ongoing Occupation.

It isn't a matter of good intentions, or a moral imperative with me: it is a matter of what works, and what does not work.

Clearly, life under Saddam Hussein for the average Iraqi, did not work. But the sanctions regime was only ever going to cause more misery for the already worst affected in Iraq, without having any impact on Saddam Hussein; save that he could use the U.S./U.K. sanctions regime against Iraq, to bolster his position and justify harsh domestic measures.

Saddam Hussein was NEVER going to feel the bite of the sanctions regime.

The "idea" behind the sanctions regime, was that the sanctions would bite Iraqi Society so hard, that it would rise up in rebellion against Hussein's Ba'athist regime.

But unfortunately, the majority Shia population, and minority Kurdish population of Iraq had already and recently risen up in rebellion against Saddam Hussein: immediately after the first Gulf War, when they were incited to do so by the U.S., with the promise of U.S. support.

When the Shia and Kurds DID rise up against Saddam Hussein, the U.S. failed to provide the support it promised, and Saddam Hussein ruthlessly crushed the Shia and Kurdish rebellion. Many of the Crimes Against Humanity attributed to Saddam Hussein, took place DURING the crushing of the U.S.-incited rebellion in Iraq, which followed the expulsion of Iraqi forces from Kuwait.

You may not consider this a relevant factor Clay Moore, you may brush it aside and dismiss it as irrelevant: but the fact of the matter is that many, if not all Shia Iraqis, remember this action as a betrayal of them by the U.S.

The U.S./U.K. imposed Sanctions Regime was NEVER going to work: whichever way you cut it.

And the Invasion too.

The U.S. conceit was that the majority of Iraqis would be SO pleased to be rid of Saddam Hussein; that they would welcome U.S. forces in their country.

But the fact of the matter is that as soon as Saddam Hussein was ousted, the Shia Iraqis said "Thank you very much", to the United States, "Now will YOU please leave our country."

But the U.S. remained in Iraq, and installed a puppet government whose legitimacy the Iraqi People WILL not accept: solely because it is a government established, and clearly under the control of, the United States of America.

As far as the overwhelming majority of Iraqis are concerned, the U.S. Invasion removed one bad oppressor who was making life difficult for Iraqis, and replaced it with a much worse oppressor, who has made life IMPOSSIBLE.

Now then Clay Moore: here's where Foota and I often mis-communicate.

The way I've described Iraqis feeling about the United States, is not a description of the way *I* think it should be, ought to be, or must be: it is a description of the way that Iraqis feel, right now, about the U.S.

It isn't a question of whether it should be that way, whether it is "Right" or "Fair" that it is that way, or even that it is arguable NOT that way: that simply is The Way It Is.

Right or wrong, for good or ill, the average Iraqi has seen their entire society and culture - imperfect though it was - utterly destroyed, and their entire nation turned to anarchy.

And rightly or wrongly: they blame the United States of America for this.

As far as the average Iraqi is concerned, they would rather have continued to dodge Saddam Hussein's internal security apparatus, and his mad sons, WITHIN A FUNCTIONING IRAQI STATE; than celebrate Saddam Hussein's ouster and execution, IN A COMPLETELY FAILED STATE.

You might think that wrong, you might think it ungrateful; you might even think that if Iraqis hadn't been so wrong and so ungrateful, they might have bothered to WORK WITH the United States, and by now they WOULD have had a functioning and stable Society.

But if you continue to think that way, you MUST understand that it is not at all the way that Iraqis are thinking or feeling, Today.

Because if you don't or can't understand why Iraqis MUST be thinking and feeling what I've described: then you won't be able to come up with, or support a solution to the problems in Iraq, that WILL ACTUALLY WORK.

I have no ideological or political complaints or criticisms of what you, Foota, or anyone else thinks.

But I strongly criticise your continuing to support a "Solution" that CLEARLY hasn't worked and won't work, and which is evidently entirely counter-productive.

The ONLY thing that matters is what works, and what doesn't.

Any other consideration is purely political and ideological vanity.

The kind of vanity that has turned the entire non-Jewish Middle East, and increasingly, the Whole Rest of the World, AGAINST the United States of America.

Peace