For the record SG: I am going to write this post to you with respect; without the usual belittling comments; and without any comments about your intelligence or integrity.

I would hope that if you choose to reply, you might do so in the same vein.

Alright then...

Nobody is disputing the fact that our Planet's temperature cycles fluctuate over the geological timespan, as a result of numerous geological and solar events.

These events are only barely understood, and whilst scientists' ability to identify them is increasing, it is highly likely that they will forever remain outside of Humanity's ability to control them.

But within these planetary and solar cycles, there is another influence at work that affects the ability of the Earth's Environment to sustain Human Life: and that is, clearly, Humanity's activities.

I'm no scientist, no physicist or chemist, but I understand the principle that for every action, there is a reaction.

Humanity has been artificially (un-naturally) altering the chemical composition of Earth's Environment, pretty much since it first mastered fire. But since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, around the 18th Century, there has been a sharp and precipitous increase in amounts and diversity of pollutants generated by Humanity.

Not the least of these has been the increase in gases such as carbon dioxide and methane, which trap heat within the Earth's atmosphere: so-called "Greenhouse Gases".

The Industrial Revolution saw a massive increase in the burning of fossil fuels, a process that releases carbon dioxide. It also saw a steep increase in the scale of deforestation around the World, increased pollution of the World's Oceans, and a steep decline in the health and scope of our Oceans' Ecosystems. The Earth's rainforests and oceans are our Planet's natural carbon-sinks.

None of this is in dispute SG.

To dispute it, one has to completely ignore the scale of social change that has taken place over the last 300 years. And no-one is silly enough to do that.

What climatologists and other physical scientists are trying to communicate to the World at large is just how narrow the spectrum of planetary conditions that can sustain human life are.

Minor temperature changes of a couple of degrees or so don't sound that alarming to us. Particularly to those of us who live at latitudes with four seasons. But scientists aren't talking about seasonal temperature fluctuations; they are talking about mean temperature levels throughout the year, and across the whole globe.

Single digit temperature increases equate to rises of several feet in the World's sea-level. Unfortunately, many of our major cities are built on sites that were originally chosen for their proximity to water, either in natural sea-harbours or on river flood-plains. Many major cities in the Developed World, such as New Orleans, Venice and Amsterdam are actually built on land reclaimed from the sea, and mean rises in global sea levels of only a few feet, spell disaster for these cities, as they do for nations like The Maldives that are built on volcanic atolls.

The issue is not whether or not our Planet is warming because of [b]EITHER[/b] natural or man-made phenomena; but is it warming faster than can be explained by purely natural phenomena, [b]BECAUSE[/b] of Humanity's activities.

And really, even that is not a Scientific issue, but a political and social one. The scientific consensus is as sound as it is on any subject that human activities must be and [b]ARE[/b] having a negative effect on our Planet's ability to sustain Human Life.

It may well be that the (Global, average) temperature rises we are experiencing are the result of natural phenomena. But it is a scientific certainty that human activities are contributing to and accelerating those temperature rises.

It may well be the case that if the totality of Human Society immediately begins to live the most ecologically and environmentally sustainable lifestyle possible, our Planet's natural climate cycle may still do for us all.

But to argue the toss about whether Humanity's activities are contributing to the temperature rises we are seeing, is essentially a statement of resignation.

It is the conclusion that global temperature rises are inevitable; there is fuck all that Humanity can do about it; and that we are all basically fucked.

If, on the other hand, you accept that Humanity should change what is within its power to change, in order to give us the best chance of mitigating the effects of those things that we can't change: then you are at least giving Humanity a fighting chance to survive.

I, for one, am not yet ready to give up on the Human Race, nor the Planet that supports its Existence.

If you and others are: then it kind of makes any dialogue on any topic, entirely moot.

Are you really prepared to accept that?

[face_peace]