I think that it is about Balance.

Personally, I've got no way to know precisely what is going to happen in the future with Earth's Climate. People can helpfully provide me with links to data that says that Humanity's activities are pushing up the temperature of the Earth's Climate; other people equally helpfully provide me with links to data saying that Humanity's activities are having no influence on Climate Change; and yet more others link to data saying the Climate isn't changing at all.

I don't know. I'm not a Climatologist. How am I supposed to make sense of all that data? I was never that good a chemist, physicist or biologist; and geology and geography were always things I thought best left to the experts.

Point is, I just don't know. And I'm pretty sure that short of dedicating the rest of my Life to studying all the various scientific disciplines that everyone else seem to be experts in, I'm not sure I'll ever know.

What is abundantly clear to me, however, is that 21st Century Human Society exists entirely out of Balance with its Natural Habitat. If Climate Change isn't a problem, then it looks as though we all agree that over-population is. And even if over-population hasn't reached a critical point yet, then it is does already seem apparent that we are facing huge challenges with top-soil depletion, over-fishing, pollution, waste-disposal, acid rain, water shortages, and, well, a shit-load of other challenges to our continued Existence that [b]ARE[/b] all undeniably the result of Humanity's activities.

Maybe that's why I personally agree that the focus on Climate Change is a dangerous distraction. Focusing on a single issue where there appears to be considerable room for debate about Humanity's responsibility, means, I feel, that we are ignoring a whole load of other issues that Humanity is unarguably responsible for.

Somewhere in our Collective Psyche, Humanity has disconnected itself from the Natural World, has forgotten that it is, At the End of the Day, just another natural, terrestrial species.

Now we can try and talk about the Human Economy as though that too is something distinct and separate from Nature, something entirely artificial created by we oh-so-clever apes. But if anything, our Economy is [b]MORE[/b] directly dependent upon Nature than we are.

The bulwarks of our Economy are those industries that extract material directly from the Natural World. And as those industries go about their business, they cannot help but impact upon the Environment that provides the bounty on which their riches are based.

There was a time when Captains of Industry felt able to focus solely on their own business activities, and ignore the waste output they created. But class-action lawsuits brought by those humans whose lives were directly and negatively affected by those business activities, soon hit those industries hard in their pockets.

A "Duty of Care" is now legislated into the regulations by which all businesses in the Developed World operate; and woe betide the shareholder who remains invested in a company that can be proved to be ignoring its Duty of Care. Heaven Help the finances of a corporation whose executives can be proved to be damaging peoples' lives, despite their being clearly informed about the nature of that damage.

We can all argue the toss about Climate Change, particularly on account of how (yours truly excepted) everyone is such an expert in that complex scientific field... ;)

But can anyone really support the argument that the whole scope of Human Activity isn't as deleterious to Earth's Biosphere, as the activities of a virus within the Human Body?

Is anyone seriously suggesting that our business models focus on creating something sustainable in the long-term, rather than something profitable in the short-term? Does anyone really not see that activities which are most profitable in the short-term, are almost always mutually exclusive with long-term sustainability?

Everyone wants prosperity. Everyone wants security. Everyone wants survival.

Arguing point-blank that Humanity can continue its industrial activity and material consumption indefinitely, without fear of consuming itself, is as delusional as arguing point-blank that we should put the lives of polar bear cubs ahead the lives of our own human children.

But there is a Balance Point.

Maybe some [i]are[/i] getting too hysterical about Climate Change Catastrophe. But there are just as many are obviously too complacent about the impact of Humanity's activities on its own Environment.

There are definitely certain individuals who are rather worryingly more concerned about the welfare of other animals, than they are about their own species. But there are also definitely many individuals who are more concerned with making as much money as possible in the short-term, than they are bothered with the long-term impact their financial activities have on everyone else.

Finding the Balance Point is simply about finding a Sustainable Existence.

There's no point worrying about a healthy Economy, if the Society that Economy is based in is terminally diseased. And there's no point figuring out how to save all the fluffy pandas and noble tigers of the World, if there are human beings still so hungry they will eat anything.

Everything we do must, obviously, be sustainable. Only a fool could think otherwise.

Maybe the people harping on about Climate Change are prone to dishonestly exaggerating their claims and their figures. But anyone who continues to believe that Humanity can continue its industrial rapine and consumption of the Earth without facing severe consequences in the not too distant future is being just as dishonest.

We need balanced argument just as much as we need balanced reasoning. We need balanced solutions just as much as we need balanced priorities.

Above all else, to ensure our own species' survival, we need to find a way to live in Balance with our Natural World.

Imbalance is unsustainable.

[face_peace]