I wonder, who here present really understands the Science involved?

I'm not just talking about a layman's understanding of some of the terms used. I mean, I understand the basic principle behind a light switch, but I'm no physicist.

I'm no climatologist either. In fact, I wouldn't describe myself as any kind of a physical scientist. An amateur social scientist, certainly; and somewhat of a professional economics "scientist". But certainly no geologist, meteorologist or climatologist.

And the thing is, I'm not an avionics expert either.

If I was walking towards an airport boarding gate with my family, and I walked past 99 eminently qualified avionics technicians who were telling me not to get on the plane, as there was a very high probability that it would crash; and on the other side of the aisle, there was just 1 avionics technician, 50 representatives of the airline company that owned the plane, and 49 politicians (ffs!), all telling me that the plane was perfectly fine and safe...

There is a good chance that I wouldn't get on that plane with my family.

I can't help but notice that there is a hugely "Faith-based" attitude prevalent amongst man-made climate change sceptics. I read a lot of people on this forum savaging the likes of JFitch and TED, for the absence of empirical data to support what they believe, as well as the dogmatic refusal to accept scientific and geological evidence about the age of the Planet, for example. And I don't really hear any difference in tone from those who dispute that Humanity's activities are having a survival-threatening effect on the Planet that sustains their lives.

The economic argument seems to be about the only somewhat-solid basis for objection to doing something about the changes to Earth's Environment that is caused by Humanity's activities. But even these sounds as short-term as it is short-sighted, since the costs of dealing with the effects of climate change will be far, far greater than the costs of mitigating it.

If nothing else, it must be very clear to all but the most blinded that Human Society in its present form is very, very wasteful. The wealth of data that supports the facts about Climate Change indicate that more than three-quarters of the activities damaging our Environment are wasteful and inefficient. And since when have financiers and businessmen supported waste and inefficiency?

Well, actually only when the (very) short-term effects of countering waste and inefficiency hurt their own pockets; even though the long-term effects are greater prosperity and stability.

I don't think we really need to concern ourselves with the validity of shock-stories or Armageddon scenarios. I agree fully that they are an unnecessary distraction.

However, I'm pretty certain that you don't need to be a climatologist - or even a sociologist - to recognise that Human Society is deeply wasteful, deeply polluting its environment, and living deeply out of Harmony with its Natural Ecosphere.

Whether "We Are All Doomed!!" or not, tidying up after our selves, not making so much mess in the first place, and not being happy to live in a shit-hole of our own creation has to be a sensible objective.

I'm just reading "London - A Social History", by Roy Porter, at the moment, and I'm currently moving through Tudor and Stuart-era London. And you know, right up to the 19th Century, most Londoners thought nothing about having to wade through human excrement as they went about their daily lives. And of course, they thought nothing about throwing their own faeces out of their windows, when they'd had a good shit (or even a bad shit...) in the night.

And then, in the mid-19th Century, a few scientists and health professionals started talking about microscopic animals in the water supply that were causing the cholera and typhoid epidemics that regularly blighted London. Of course, many people didn't really understand the science at the time (though they figured they had a pretty good grasp of it all), and many thought it was just an attention-grabbing and funding-grabbing exercise.

And when - horror of horrors! - some people suggested raising taxes so that a sewer system could be built for London, to flush all the shit into the Thames: Parliament, London businesses and workers, went ape-shit!

But, eventually, the presentations and demonstrations of the Science of micro-biology became so compelling, that only the most self-absorbed could continue to ignore it without concern for the laughing-stock they had become.

And now, we look back from the 21st Century, and we can't *BELIEVE* that people used to walk around in streets coated with human excrement, without a second thought.

And I'm pretty sure that if Humanity makes it through the next 100 years or so, there will be people looking back at Human Society on Earth at the beginning of the 21st Century, shaking their heads in disbelief at the number of people who thought it acceptable to live in their own waste and squalor.

I know I'm thinking that already, and the Century has only just begun. :)

[face_peace]