Oh, I think we're viewing through the same lens Drew...

...Maybe just try turning yours around so that everything that looks small will look larger. :)

Alright, so, it's helpful that you mention your workplace, 'cos I think that's pretty much the best place to start. It is where I've started. My job these days pretty much resolves around addressing the very same situation you have described at your workplace. I'm sure you'll acknowledge that there is nothing unique about the situation you find yourself in with your subordinate.

So, firstly, what can you and can't you say?

Well, who are you talking to? You've just told everyone here how you feel about your subordinate. And doubtless most of your colleagues feel the same way. The question is though: is he really the cause of the "cancer"; or is it the way that you and your colleagues are responding to him?

He is what he is. He apparently can't help that. And a personality of that type is usually quite painfully aware of their own social shortcomings. Perhaps you and your colleagues could console yourselves with the understanding that if his crime is basically, being who he is: that is also his punishment.

But whatever he is, whatever his "crimes" are, he really can't be capable of single-handedly spreading the "cancer". We are, after all, only talking about cancer metaphorically here. What we mean in the literal sense is that his negative conduct and energy acts as a lightning rod for everyone else's negativity. Everyone else bitches and moans about him, and that really depresses the overall morale around the place.

The cure for the cancer is simply to stop feeding the troll. Literally. It behoves you and your colleagues to not spend your time endlessly discussing and deconstructing what is a known quantity. You may not be able to do anything about him, but you can do something about your own behaviour.

You talk about having to mask your true feelings... But honestly..? If your workplace is anything like every workplace I've ever worked in, are you *REALLY* masking your "true feelings", or are you, more likely, spending a lot of your time bitching and gossiping about the least valued and lowest performing member of the pack?

I don't know the specifics of your workplace Drew, and I obviously don't know the specifics about the individual you are referring to. But I do know the psychology of human beings in the workplace, and I can't imagine that your place of work is all that different to any other.

The guy is your subordinate, so he clearly cannot occupy a position of integral importance within the overall team operation. If he did, then you would be at fault for not sufficiently managing the resource deficiency that is so key to the business operation. If his poor performance is a quantifiable risk to the overall productivity and profitability of your business unit or the enterprise as a whole, then you would be able to (and should) demonstrate this objectively.

More likely, he's doing some make-weight job that doesn't require an awful lot of ingenuity and doesn't offer a great opportunity for self-fulfilment. Or, at least, that is how he is choosing to feel about the job he is doing. In short: he is spending at least a third of his life doing something he has decided he hates doing, and he wants to share his misery.

Now, the Good News is, that making such observations and sharing them with the person concerned, is not against any employment law I'm aware of. It isn't even against any statute of social etiquette that I can think of. Indeed, it is the very height of courtesy to share one's feelings about another, openly and truthfully. Much more courteous and civilised than harbouring those feelings behind shielded hands and opaque glances.

The trick though, is having once communicated that to the person, you leave them the space to deal with it, and you get on with your own activity. You're not going to ignore them. Quite the contrary, you will be keeping a keen and optimistic eye on them, in the fervent hope that they will come to a realisation that may just lead them towards enhanced personal happiness.

That may be a Fairy-Tale ending, where they become the most productive, creative and positive member of the team; or it might be an equally happy ending for the rest of you, when he finally realises that the name for someone who does a job they hate, purely for the money, is a prostitute; and he hands in his notice.

Or, maybe he'll sink further into his well of self-pity, become more apparently ineffective at his job, his personal attitude will become more overtly poisonous, and will in short order demonstrate that he is no longer suitable to fulfil the function that he is employed to perform.

The key point here Drew is that you and your colleagues *ENGAGE* - positively and proactively.

You want what is best for everyone, yes, including him. The only person you are trying to mask your feelings about him to, is him; and he is equipped with the same sensory apparatus as you. He can feel very acutely that your superficial words do not match your true feelings: such dynamics fuel a *LOT* of contempt within our societies.

Try being completely honest with him. Try laying it all out on the table. If you are uncertain about where you stand with regard to employment law, then you should discuss it with a colleague or department that does know about such things. Talk constructively and positively about the issue with your colleagues in any case. Recognise that you are all at least 50% responsible for allowing this individual to depress the mood and moral of the place.

Take responsibility for your own part in the drama. Stop justifying inactivity by imagining there must be rules and regulations that forbid you from speaking honestly and openly with someone about the way they make you feel.

Be honest too about the fact that you do feel compassion for him, that you recognise his misery and as his superior, feel a sense of responsibility about that. Be honest about the fact that your actual compulsion is not to "root him out and kill him", but actually to help him, if you can.

All it takes is honesty and direct engagement with a fellow human being. It is not your intent to be offensive or hostile - certainly not to create any more offence or hostility than is created by the gossiping and isolation.

For good or ill, right now, he is a part of your team. Ignoring the situation whilst you wait/hope for it to resolve itself is never a good tactic. Waiting for the situation to get so bad that something goes obviously and explosively wrong is not a very positive strategy.

Engage with him and bring matters to a head in a controlled, collective and calm way.

This is precisely the kind of thing I am talking about with regard to this latest tragedy.

:>_