It is what Historians call a Teleological Argument:

You start at the Conclusion you want to reach, then reverse back only into factual interpretations that support that Conclusion.

Actually, that's bigging Foota up a bit, suggesting he might be applying any form of Historical Method. His position is actually more [url=http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/tautology ]tautological[/url] than teleological.

What we do know as fact is that from 1945 onwards, successive U.S. Administrations went bat-shit crazy whenever anyone mentioned the word "Communism". Just totally mental. Really insane.

Most of 1950's American Culture was defined by this irrational, hysterical and utterly extreme hatred of the term and what it was supposed to represent (overtly ignoring that Jesus of Nazareth was one of the first people in recorded History to articulate the merits of Communism...).

The House Un-American Activities Committee was every bit as frightening and intimidating as any Communist Show Trial, and was used for the same purpose: to eradicate any ideological non-conformity.

It got so bad that even that Paragon of Puppet Presidents Harry Truman [url=http://trumanlibrary.org/calendar/viewpapers.php?pid=2102 ]even spoke out against it[/url]:

[quote] But the idea of freedom is in danger from others as well as the Communists. There are some who hate communism, but, who, at the same time, are unwilling to acknowledge the ideals of the Constitution as the supreme law of the land. They are the people who believe it is too dangerous to proclaim liberty throughout all the land to all its inhabitants. What these people really believe is that the Preamble ought to be changed from "We, the people" to read, "Some of us--some of the people of the United States, but not including those we disapprove of or disagree with--do ordain and establish this [p.1079] Constitution."Whether they know it or not, these people are enclosing the spirit as well as the letter of the original Constitution in a glass case, sealed off from the living nation. They are turning it into a mummy, as dead as some old Pharaoh of Egypt, and in doing that they are giving aid and comfort to the enemies of democracy.The first article of the Bill of Rights provides that Congress shall make no law respecting freedom of worship or abridging freedom of opinion. There are some among us who seem to feel that this provision goes too far, even for the purpose of preventing tyranny over the mind of man. Of course, there are dangers in religious freedom and freedom of opinion. But to deny these rights is worse than dangerous, it is absolutely fatal to liberty. The external threat to liberty should not drive us into suppressing liberty at home. Those who want the Government to regulate matters of the mind and spirit are like men who are so afraid of being murdered that they commit suicide to avoid assassination.All freedom-loving nations, not the United States alone, are facing a stern challenge from the Communist tyranny. In the circumstances, alarm is justified. The man who isn't alarmed simply doesn't understand the situation--or he is crazy. But alarm is one thing, and hysteria is another. Hysteria impels people to destroy the very thing they are struggling to preserve.Invasion and conquest by Communist armies would be a horror beyond our capacity to imagine. But invasion and conquest by Communist ideas of right and wrong would be just as bad.For us to embrace the methods and morals of communism in order to defeat Communist aggression would be a moral disaster worse than any physical catastrophe. If that should come to pass, then the Constitution and the Declaration would be utterly dead and what we are doing today would be the gloomiest burial in the history of the world.[/quote]

It was thanks such an enlightened and progressive culture that the World was treated to such heart-warming spectacles as the overthrow of Mohammed Mossadeq in Iran, uncritical support by the United States of Fascist Dictatorships in South America, the Cuban Missile Crisis, and of course, the Vietnam War.

Having inflated the "Evil" nature of Soviet (and to a lesser extent, Chinese) Communism, it was impossible for the United States to alter that position. History records numerous and repeated entreaties from the Soviet Government headed by Nikita Kruschev aimed at détente and an end to the Cold War, but it was domestically politically impossible for either the Eisenhower of Kennedy Administrations to accept such offers, against the backdrop of such hysterical American Anti-Communism.

The result was that Kruschev was ousted as being a failure, by Soviet hardliners, and replaced by a succession of military-controlled automatons.

And the, uh, Fallout from the radioactive Anti-Communist hysteria of the 1950's and 1960's continued to rain down on many Americans, even unto the 1980's.

As the forthcoming film [url=http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1352847/ ]"Rekjavik" [/url] will undoubtedly *NOT* show, even as Gorbachev was offering Reagan the opportunity to go to "zero nuclear weapons", Reagan was unable to accept the offer.

http://www.nuclearfiles.org/menu/key-issues/nuclear-weapons/history/cold-war/us-soviet-relations/reagan-gorbachev-era.htm

It was somewhat ironic that even if Reagan had had the ability to grasp the events that he was a party to, the scandal that was engulfing his Administration had grown out of a corrupt attempt by his minions to fund the "fight" against Communism in Nicaragua. The same Nicaragua that Reagan had declared a National Emergency in May 1985 about, to prepare the U.S. against an invasion from that nation...

When the Soviet Union (not Communism) collapsed in 1990, it was always going to be claimed as a victory by the hysterically brainwashed in America; and naturally enough, the government of the 52nd State of the U.S. obviously tried to claim a bit of credit for it as well - though no-one took that claim seriously, then or now.

The Soviet Union collapsed because it's internal political structures had calcified; in such proximity to Western Europe it couldn't help but be penetrated by a different set of Cultural and Social ideals, ideals that allowed Mikhail Gorbachev to dismantle the clearly broken edifice of Soviet Totalitarianism.

The U.S. was the last standing out of the two Cold War factions, entirely because it had more progressive Social and Economic policies; *NOT* because its Anti-Soviet policies "Won" the Cold War.

Communism is just an idea. And different people from Jesus through Karl Marx to the Internet's "Crowdsourcers" have all had different interpretations of what that means.

The U.S. can only try and claim victory in its "War Against Communism", by completely ignoring and deliberately misinterpreting the way in which China's current centralised command economy functions.

Fact is that terms like Communism, Totalitarianism, Marxism, Stalinism and Maoism all get ridiculously conflated when being telegraphed to a hystericalised population under the catch-all term of "Evil".

And yet another fact is that outside of the United Kingdom and Argentina, nobody paid the Thatcher Administration of the United Kingdom the slightest bit of attention during the Epochal shifts of the 1980's.

:>_