In Reply To #34

Thats why in order for an economy to be succesful today there has to be some selfish incentive to get people to work effectively.  However, we can still help our fellow man by providing everybody with a safety net to prevetn them from living in poverty and providing them with free education, free healthcare, etc. so that we can atleast grant everyone equal opportunity.

The key conceit in many people's opposition to communism is the "All or Nothing" principle. That is, that either everything is subject to communism, or nothing is.

As usual, there is a middle road.

There's a question I always like to ask arch-capitalists/rabid anti-communists, and that is:

Do you think it is morally appropriate for one human being to materially profit from another human being's need for water?

(Always a good idea to start with the basics :))

Every living being needs water. Whilst a human can go weeks without food (though not without causing long-term medical problems), lack of access to water causes far more immediate problems.

So we understand that water is a basic necessity for human life.

There is a material cost associated with the provision of water. There are the costs of engineering, maintenance and operation. There are the costs of making water safe to drink. And in many parts of the World, there are the costs of finding a potable water source. These are all fixed costs. That is, there is a fixed cost in any given area for providing the water, which covers all the above costs and the wages for the humans who work the water system.

When the supply of water is under the control of private corporations, those corporations have a further requirement, and that requirement is to return a profit. In other words, water companies must charge the amount it costs them to provide clean, drinkable water PLUS a certain amount of profit on top of that. That means that you pay more for your water than it actually costs to provide it. The extra that you pay, goes to the shareholders of the water companies as profit dividends.

The situation we find ourselves in then, is that we are paying more than the basic cost for provision of water, not to subsidise other humans who perhaps can not afford to pay for the provision of water (and I'm thinking of Third World countries here, rather than people on welfare), but to enrich water company shareholders.

These shareholders are materially profiting from other human beings' essential need for water.

One of the essential ideas behind Capitalism is that competition encourages progress. But where is the progress to be made in the provision of water? Either people have access to clean and safe water, or they don't. There is no "better" way to provide clean and safe water; and water is clean and safe, or it isn't.

Personally, I don't mind paying more for my water supply than it actually costs to bring it into my home, but given the choice between subsidising another human being's need for water, or materially profiting my water provider's investors, I know which I'd rather.

And that's just water.

Next up, it would seem obvious to look at food. Not haut cuisine of course, not "The Dining Experience", not even a choice of food; just a basic diet, required to keep a human being nourished and healthy.

And then there is medicine. And shelter. And a basic level of clothing.

And maybe education.

But...

That's it.

I can't think of anything else that really fits in the same category of basic necessities, absolutely essential to Human Life.

And I've no problem with EVERYTHING else that fits into the pantheon of the human consumer lifestyle being subject to market forces, capitalism and profit.

Clearly, competition in technological advances DOES equate to progress (though I'm not sure that rampant and unrestrained capitalisation equates to competition, but there you go...). Clearly a diverse and sophisticated Society likes to express its individuality through the personal choices it makes, and for that, it needs to be able to make choices.

But the basic fucking essentials of Life...

It's a no-brainer.

I think Soviet Communism failed (eventually - it actually did quite well in the 50's and early 60's) because it attempted to bring every aspect of Society under centralised, community-directed control.

And I think Human Government will only succeed when it realises that its sole purpose, its sole reason for existence, is to provide Society with the basic necessities of Life: water; food; shelter; clothing; medicine.

That's it.

Everything else can be provided for individuals, by individuals, without any involvement from politicians or bureaucrats.

Peace