Just to clarify:

Communism is just a very basic theory/idea/IDEAL that simply advocates eliminating the concept of private property.

It is, incidentally, a theory advocated by, amongst others, Jesus of Nazareth and Prince Siddartha (the Buddha).

That's it. That's all communism is. Just an idea about an ideal World where nothing is owned by anyone. Goods and property are "owned" in common, and are available to all as needed.

Just a theory - and an enlightened one at that. It doesn't even deserve to be, uh, capitalised (:)) as a proper noun. It's just plain "small-c" communism.

Marxism on the other hand, IS a specific ideology, formulated and espoused by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels at the end of the 19th Century. Whilst a communist sensibility is at the heart of Marxism, Marxism is far more concerned with the method of bringing about the utopian ideal of a communist society.

Lenin took Marxism and applied it to the specific state of affairs in Imperial Russia at the beginning of the 20th Century. Marxist-Leninism then is (was) a specific methodology for bringing about dramatic and violent change in aristocratic Russia, and an attempt to create an ideal egalitarian society in the new, Soviet Russia.

Totalitarianism is the state of affairs where a society is subject to centralised control by an autocratic authority.

Hitler's extreme-Right-Wing fascist Nazis are an example of totalitarianism; and Stalin's Left-Wing and Mao Zedong's extreme Left-Wing communist governments are also examples of totalitarianism.

Because communism advocates common ownership, and Marxism advocates putting control of that common ownership under a centralised "Bureau of the People", the conditions are rife for Marxist governments to become totalitarian. As we have seen in the experience of Soviet Russians, Maoist China, and post-revolutionary France.

Because fascism demands absolute obedience to the State, and a zealous adherence to uniformity (in all senses of the word), conditions are also rife for fascist governments to become totalitarian. As we have in seen in the experience of Nazi Russia, Fascist Italy, and post-War South America.

Totalitarianism has nothing to do with a core political or religious ideology; and everything to do with totally centralised and autocratic authority and power.

In Western propaganda, communism was and is deliberately confused with totalitarianism. In Soviet, Chinese and Islamic propaganda, capitalism was and is deliberately confused with totalitarianism.

And in all cases, totalitarianism is synonymous with militarism and nationalism.

Totalitarianism is ultimately, the subordination of the citizen to the State, one way or another.

Communism is simply the innocuous (and entirely plausible) idea that humans would be much happier if they weren't obsessing all the time about what they OWNED.

Or should that be: Pwned?

Misunderstanding the benign IDEAL of communism is largely the force behind the antimonious spectre of consumerism that now seems to have much of the World in its grip.

Consumerism is the complete opposite of communism: it is the idea that you can not be truly happy, unless you own EVERYTHING.

The Proletariat has become the Consumtariat.

Not long for the Revolution now. :)

Peace