[quote="Foota"][color=#FF0000]You are really back in the shit again?  Reading through these British testimonials from the 1970's makes it seem like the UK still has a long way to go before you return to your 3rd world living conditions from the 1970's.  Can't believe the good people in the UK didn't run the unions out of town for making everyone suffer for their greed.  Just like here in California, public sector unions will let everyone else suffer and let cities declare bankruptcy before they compromise.  Sometimes politicians have to take drastic measures (privatize industries, declaring bankruptcy) to get around these corrupt unions.[/color][/quote]

"Unions" have rather displaced "Communists" as your bete-noir, haven't they Foota?

Nary a day will go by without you banging on about them. Your always looking to pin the Evils of the World on some disparate group of human beings or other; and you unfailingly manage to pin it on your fellow commoners, rather than the financial and political elites of our World.

But as with so many of the objects of your derision around here, I've yet to hear anyone mount any kind of defence against Unions, as a general institution within Human Society.

For the record, I think most enlightened people feel much the same as I do about Unions:

Unions are basically political entities. They are institutions that are representative of groups of people, and Union Leaders claim to speak for and on behalf of those people they represent.

As with all representative bodies that means that a large amount of democratically legitimate opinion gets funnelled upwards to the top of these organisations. The subsequent concentration of representative legitimacy creates powerful positions at the top of the structure, positions which are then occupied by individuals who find it extremely difficult not to get intoxicated and corrupted by all that power.

The result, as we see with so many of our Human Institutions is that the maintenance, expansion and exercise of that Power becomes the [i]raison d'etre[/i] of those individuals. They soon equate their own personal interests with the interests of the broader constituency they represent; and before too long, their personal interests (and power) supersede the interests of the Collective their position exists to serve.

So Union Leaders abuse their power.

In so doing, they abuse their power-base and act against the interests of those they are supposed to represent. And that is no different to any other political or religious institution that operates on hierarchical lines.

Unions are as socially inefficient and democratically bankrupt as any other political party; because they are just as prone to corruption by the same inherent frailties of the Human Condition.

[quote="Foota"][color=#FF0000] Can't believe the good people in the UK didn't run the unions out of town for making everyone suffer for their greed.  Just like here in California, public sector unions will let everyone else suffer and let cities declare bankruptcy before they compromise. [/color][/quote]

In one breath you express surprise that the "good people" of the UK didn't run the Unions "out of town" in the 1970's and 1980's; and in the next, you describe how the (presumably equally) good people of California *STILL* haven't run the Unions out of town.

You might understand the former, if you examine the latter.

Fact of the matter is that "The Unions" are not some distinct and separate secular entity, no matter how much you have been taught to anthropomorphise that collective noun.

"The Unions" are collective bodies of those same people you are expecting to "run the unions out of town". Unions are just a method of collective organisation - not a species of human bacteria that infects the Body Politic.

As with the Rest of the World in the 1970's - including the United States - the UK was in a dire economic state, with rampant inflation (peaking at 20% in the early years of the Thatcher Administration) coupled with economic stagnation. It wasn't the existence of Trades Unions that was a problem in and of itself, but the increased militancy of Union Leadership that reflected and exacerbated the dissatisfaction of Union Members.

The reasons why the Global Economy was in such a shit state in the 1970's are many (oil shocks, Nixon taking the U.S. off the Gold Standard, improving manufacturing output in the Far East).

The rise of Union power and militancy in the West was a response to this; not a cause of it.

Many people in the UK continue to be members of Trades Unions; but they have recognised that Union militancy is counter-productive to job security. The relationship between Management and Union Representatives is now much more symbiotic and is recognised by the leadership of large commercial and Public organisations as crucial to effective Employer-Employee relationships.

So by all means continue to rail against, "The You-nions" Foota, if you think it will help. Just don't expect it to do much to reduce your reputation for being a bit stuck in the past.

:>_