[quote=Foota post_id=31335 time=1750455968 user_id=64][color=#FF0000]I think it will be 20+ years before the first humans set foot on Mars.[/color][/quote]

I do not believe that any human will set foot on Mars. Except maybe in a couple of thousand years Time, purely for shits and giggles. But certainly not in any meaningful way that can help Humanity avoid its current, very critical problems on Earth.

The idea that Life on Mars offers any kind of hopeful or optimistic future for Humanity, is a terrifying distraction.

Humanity clearly has yet to master the ability to live sustainably on a single planet. If it can't do that (and it has been trying to, for a very long and bloody Time...), what makes it think it would do any better on a second planet?

Humanity will need to figure out how to:

a) viably get to and from Mars, in a safe, reliable, and cost-effective way

b) meaningfully transform the atmosphere and natural environment on Mars, so that it might feasibly scale-up to support a large population of human beings

c) transport the frontier crews (individuals and equipment) to Mars, so they can start building the kind of infrastructure needed to support a large population of human beings

d) effectively deliver the entire Programme, without it becoming hopelessly mired in the usual bickering about ownership, funding, and the ideologies of those involved.

I'm sure the Technology is all there, or will be soon. And our Scientists are logarithmically accelerating their Understanding of how Humanity can sustainably co-exist with the Natural Environment it is an inseparable part of. And there are always plenty of brave Pioneers ready to volunteer for this kind of Frontier work.

The issue isn't that Humanity lacks sufficient technologies and/or resources, or intelligence and bravery; it is that Humanity lacks the ability to effectively Communicate and Cooperate.

As the number of those who need to be effectively and sustainably communicating and cooperating increases, the effectiveness of their actual communication and cooperation decreases.

In my Experience, 9 is the optimal number for any Team size. 12 at a push, and only where clearly-defined necessity requires it.

Any group of 13 or more humans and their inability to effectively Communicate and Cooperate begins to metastasize into something horrible. Each additional resource you add to the team, reduces the team's effectiveness (probably definable by some inverse square Law...).

By the time we reach "Teams" of millions and more, the effectiveness of Communication (the integral precursor for effective Cooperation) has usually been hijacked and coopted by cliques of powerful individuals. Individuals who are rarely in the mood to encourage (or allow) the masses of human beings they oppress to Communicate and Cooperate effectively.

Mastery of the technology and infrastructure that is clearly effective at manipulating Communication, has elevated individuals in the "Tech Sector" to positions of social and economic status that were inconceivable in the 20th Century, a mere 25 years ago. Elon Musk being just a single example of many...

The problem however, is that these individuals have been elevated into a social and economic framework that is in its final death throes. A framework defined by Control, Ownership, Competition, and Kings, or C.O.C.K.s.

If this were a "Reality [sic]" show on TV, or a well-produced sequence of movies, we would all be highly entertained. Sadly however, it is our actually-lived Reality right now.

Just when the Whole of Humanity really *NEEDS* to be Communicating and Cooperating effectively, along comes a [url=https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pied_Piper_of_Hamelin]Pied Piper[/url], to lead all of the children away.

Whatever else Elon Musk is, he is terribly wasting very precious Time.

@2025 CE, Humanity is neurotically and very fearfully coming to terms with the Reality of how much of a mess has been made - and continues to be made - of the *ONLY* currently available Planet. Humanity is living in still increasing piles of its own waste, and it really *IS* starting to look like the End might well be Nigh.

Suppose Humanity cannot Communicate and Cooperate effectively enough to save its own Existence (on the only Planet currently available to it). In that case, it has zero chance of cooperating effectively enough to reach the planet Mars in any meaningful way.

And if Humanity [i]does[/i] figure out how to Cooperate effectively enough to save itself on Earth, it will never need to consider the possibility of seeding Mars with a secondary human population.

Apart from anything else: Mars is fucking cold! Good luck convincing Settlers to follow any Pioneers!