Just been talking with Holyboy 2.0 about the coronavirus..:

There are two possible outcomes here, son.

The first is if the worst and most dire predictions play out.

Which according to current projections and predictions, appears to mean that over the next six to twelve months, around a quarter of a billion human beings are going to die as a result of the virus. Human beings who wouldn't otherwise be facing an imminent and untimely death.

So now it's Lottery Time.

Which ones of us are going to be part of the quarter billion?

Everyone's in it, and it's yours to lose.

The Animal Response is: anyone but me.

The Mammalian Response is: anyone but the kids.

And the Human Response is: anyone but us (fine if other unfortunates' grandmothers die in droves: just not *MY* Granny..!)

So objectively son, we mustn't get too distracted by the possibility of it hitting Home.

And besides, I spoke to the HolyGrandFather (84) just yesterday, and I haven't heard him as riled-up and full of political vitality since the Fireman's Strike in 1977. He reckons he wants to catch it, so's he can Live-Stream getting over it.

Most of us live our lives as a Lottery in any case; many of us participate in them, in one form or another. In the vain hope that we will (somehow...) be selected for a Life of [glamour, intrigue and excitement] (YMMV).

So, you know, just not losing too much is the best win you can get out of this Lottery.

So what's new?

The other possible outcome - which HGF seems to be betting on - is that the whole thing is one steaming pile of bullshit.

That actually, the absolute numbers currently headlining the Media do not, in all eventuality, turn into statistically-meaningful percentages.

The rates of infection suddenly drop off; or every one who does get it, Instagrams the shit out of it, and gets the Whole World laughing about how quickly our [i]ersatz[/i] Society crumbled.

And nobody bothers to go back to work or school.

'Cos, what would be the point?

To continue to shore up a Society that has so ignominiously failed such a straightforward challenge to its Collective Survival?

When they will have learned far more about each other and How the World Actually Is, during the Time they weren't shackled to one equivalent of a Victorian workhouse bench or another.

Either outcome will substantially alter the Course of Humanity.

But you know son, Life doesn't have to be a Lottery. All you need is a Purpose in your Life.

Doesn't matter what the Purpose is. So long as it is remotely plausible and realistic, the more unrealistic and implausible it seems, the better. Because, you know, you'll just have to find another Purpose, if you ever actually fulfil your first one.

Now when one form of social organisation demonstrates that it is no longer fit-for-purpose - however tragic or absurd that demonstration is - we need to come up with new and newer forms of social organisation, not keep repeating the same mistakes.

Each attempt learning from the previous one, until the Process is producing maximally effective outcomes for the greatest number of entities within the organisation (which is a fairly obvious Performance and Sustainability Indicator, if you think about it).

And to keep doing it, until we achieve those maximally effective outcomes.

Never stopping to rest on our laurels.

All that is required is Common Purpose.

And anything is possible, when we put our Minds together.

Isn't it son?

HB2 (11): Yes, dad (48).