I don't think that it will ever be possible to separate the impact of money, power and influence, on democratic politics.

It is one of Democracy's greatest flaws that it presupposes that because, morally speaking, everyone is equal, then everyone will (or should) behave in an equal manner.

The Democratic Ideal supposes that a wealthy and powerful individual, who has the resources and contacts to influence other people to his or her own benefit, is not going to use that influence, "because it wouldn't be fair to those other (equal) people who don't have my power and influence."

It just ain't gonna happen.

And imagining that we are only ever a few corporate exposures and a few guilty consciences away from having the Perfect, Untainted, Democratic Political System, where Everyone Has Equal Influence, is I think largely why Human Society is still struggling with War and Inequality after all these years.

No, I think railing against the undoubted influence over "democratic" politicians that corporate donations can purchase, is as naive as it is pointless. One might just as well complain about the corrupting influence that Power has, even on supposedly saintly people like Mr. Obama.

What we need is a fresh approach.

The way I see it, over the last thirty or forty years, successive governments in the U.S., U.K. and other Western Nations have sought to privatise as much of the responsibilities and/or duties of government as possible; all with the justification that actually, government doesn't and shouldn't have as many responsibilities and/or duties as a lot of Left Wing ideologues imagine it should have.

Now with obvious and overt corporate political donations notwithstanding, it strikes me that the only business of government that has not been properly privatised, is the Business of Government.

Presidents, Prime Ministers, Senators, MPs, Congressional Representatives: all of these noble and well-intentioned citizens still function as Public Servants; paid for from the Public Purse; and all supposedly working in the Best Interests of the Public.

Now if Government Bureaucracy is as inefficient as it appears to be, as inefficient as we are told it is by those on the Right Wing: why don't we privatise Government Bureaucracy?

Here's how it might work:

When you invest money in a commercial corporation, you become a shareholder in that company. Depending on the size of your investment relative to the size of the corporation, you might expect to have the facility to hold the Executive Board of that corporation to account; you might even expect to be able to fire an entire Board, or principle members of that Board, if their performance isn't satisfactory to you and other shareholders.

In assurance of this accountability, as a shareholder, you will expect to see (and are entitled by law to see) audited accounts of the financial activities and status of the corporation, as well as strategic, short- and long-term business plans for the forthcoming business years. You will determine whether to increase, decrease or sell entirely your share-holding in the corporation, based on how successful you estimate that company to be and have been.

As I said, if you consider an Executive Board to be performing badly, or if you do not approve of their plans for the business, it is your right to either surrender your shareholding, or, if you can generate sufficient support amongst your fellow shareholders, to dismiss the Board and replace it with another that promises higher performance.

(See where I'm going with this? :))

So, when it comes to the "Business" of running a Nation, why can't the same principles apply?

Rather than vacuous campaign promises that do little more than appeal to the vanity of the Electorate; let us see some concrete Business Plans, with some transparent and clearly defined Key Performance Indicators (K.P.I.'s).

Instead of citizens having a vote, let them have a Share Certificate on which they can fill out the name of the business team they feel is likely to demonstrate the highest success rate against those defined K.P.I.'s. And rather than Elections, let us have quarterly and annual performance reviews against which the performance of the Board (or "Government") can be assessed.

Three or four successive quarters of poor performance could result in an automatic dismissal of a particular "Board" team (with a disqualification period for re-application of say 4 years). There would then follow a "shareholder vote" where prospective replacement Board teams could make their pitch.

Rather than a "Government" or Board being dismissed because they lacked popularity, they would be replaced due to poor performance against the K.P.I.'s that were agreed with their shareholders at the beginning of each business cycle.

As with any good business, the "Government" Board could generate investment from wherever it chose to. If it wanted to accept investment from non-Government corporations, in exchange for favourable legislation, that would be fine, so long as it was all a part of the overall business plan and didn't hamper performance against the K.P.I.'s agreed with the shareholders.

Indeed, such investment might well [i]increase[/i] K.P.I. results. For instance, one of the K.P.I.'s might be to keep income tax below a certain threshold: let's say 15%. A poorly performing "Government" Board might see income tax rise to 20%; a K.P.I. threshold that might see automatic dismissal of the Board. But a highly performing "Government" Board might attract sufficient external investment that may see income tax drop to 10%. This high performance might see an automatic reward like guaranteed renewal of the Board's tenure for a further 12 months.

Of course, there would be many other K.P.I.'s, and each action or policy that affected one K.P.I. positively, might affect 10 others negatively. So the main activity of the Board would be to balance out their decisions to ensure an overall high performance.

For example, there would be no point accepting a billion dollar investment from the oil industry, in exchange for opening up the A.N.W.R. to oil exploration, even if it meant reducing income tax by a couple of points (and improving the income tax K.P.I.), if it had a knock-on negative effect on K.P.I.'s related to pollution, environmental sustainability and citizen's health. (That's just an example...)

Of course, no matter how much a non-government corporation might invest in The Government Corporation, they wouldn't get to increase their share-holding: the Board of Directors of the Government Corporation wouldn't be able to issue more shares without a Shareholder Vote.

However, it might be that a non-government corporation might want to buy up the "shares" and voting-rights of other "shareholders" or citizens, either for a fixed period or permanently. There might be a whole bunch of people who couldn't give a fuck about government and its activities, and wouldn't be bothered to vote whether as a shareholder or a member of the electorate.

They could sell their "share" (and voting right) to the highest bidder, for a nice little wodge of cash. The non-government corporation that buys the share would have additional influence over the choice of Government Board; and the apathetic/apolitical voter/"shareholder" who sold their voting share would get a nice little bonus.

The key thing being that politicians and members of government would be held to something far more accountable than an empty campaign slogan. Their "business" and activity as government would be measured against agreed, concrete and transparent Key Performance Indicators. And governments would change not as a result of unpopularity, but as a result of poor performance.

If it is acceptable to privatise social necessities such as Healthcare, Energy and Water supplies, then why not privatise Government as well?

It would be at least as democratic as the current state of affairs; and any donations or "investments" that corporations make, would go directly to the "shareholder" or electorate, rather than the people employed to run the government.

Makes perfect sense to me. :)

[face_peace]