[quote=[CAT]Spandex][color=indigo]I've never heard of an American equivalent.

Basically they're kinda like volunteer helpers. Folks who want to help sort out their communities but for whatever reason can't/won't be a proper policeman. They just commit to a few hours a week, receive some basic training and get sent out there to keep things in line. Their powers are minimal as far as I am aware, perhaps even zero. I'm not sure if they get paid at all. If they do it's very little.

It's a nice idea but I'm skeptical as to how effective it is at fighting crime. If people wanna help out then it's a good way to get em involved though I guess.[/color][/quote]

One of the "Benchmarks" used by rags like the Daily Mail, to scream at (whichever) Government for failing its duty to The People, is the number of *VISIBLE* "Bobbies on the Beat".

Community Support Officers (CSO's) are the current government's response to this.

CSO's are more or less exclusively drawn from middle class families, where the parents have done their level best to keep their children on the straight and narrow: usually by cloistering them during childhood.

Being a CSO is a bit like joining the adult version of Boy Scouts/Girl Guides: it's a way for good, upstanding citizens, to do their bit for the Community.

They get a stripped down version of regular police training - takes about a week or so - and then are put in an anti-stab jacket, given a utility belt with no gun or truncheon, but occasionally a can of Mace, and sent out on the Street to be a visible, uniformed presence.

When CSO's first hit the streets, nearly ten years ago, they had no more "powers" than ordinary citizens. What they did have though, was a police radio, with which they could summon regular Police assistance double-quick.

But nowadays, Chief Constables of individual Police Forces can grant CSO's pretty much any power that a regular police officer has; with the exception of firearms and vehicle pursuit authority.

Central London is pretty much coated in CSO's these days, and it is rare to see a regular police officer on The Beat.

In terms of getting bodies on the street, to act as the eyes and ears of Law Enforcement, I don't see CSO's as a bad thing: I think of them as marginally more sentient CCTV cameras.

But letting naïve and unprepared citizens function as a "Short Arm of the Law", simply to save money, seems to me to be a bit of a, uh, "Cop-out". :)

Peace