[quote=Alaskan_Viking][quote=Superslacks][color=green]Not directing this at anyone in particular, but is the discussion that this 'poisonous' political atmosphere, allegedly created by The Right, is being attributed as a major factor in the shooting?

'cos as far as I can tell this was just a nutter who went on a gun rampage. I can't see that he wouldn't have done it even in the absence of some tenuous provocation in the form of posters and such.[/color][/quote]

[color=red]+1[/color][/quote]

Yeah, imma gonna go with you on this one too 'Slacks.

I think it is a social issue, not a political one.

Politics in the U.S. *IS* highly polarised, and highly charged... But I think that is as much of a symptom of the underlying social issue as this shooting. In other words, the social and cultural conditions that provoked or catalysed this latest shooting spree are the same conditions that provoke the highly charged political partisanship evident in the U.S.

As for what that social/cultural issue is... Well, that's not easy to address succinctly...

I think that your average American (male, particularly) has a highly developed sense of self-importance and self-worth. I don't say that as a negative, but rather as a relative condition: that is, relative to people in other societies.

It can't be a negative, because it is, more or less, the stated ambition of the American Republic: to create a Society where the rights of the individual are paramount. And that Cultural ambition is underwritten by the pre-eminence given to independence, self-protection and personal responsibility in the American (particularly male) Ideal.

Consequently, a sense of personal individualism pervades American Society much more evidently than say, in Chinese Society (thinking of a polar opposite). Perhaps America's visceral hatred of Communism and all the anonymous drudgery that implies is as much evidence of this as anything else.

As in any Society, there is an Economic/Material hierarchy in the U.S., which Americans seem as susceptible to accepting and participating in as any other human being in any other human society. But the same can't be said of Americans' ideological dispositions, which are as fiercely and individually proclaimed and projected as they are preserved and protected.

To your average (mostly male) American, the idea that one should develop a personal, political/religious ideology, and then manifest and concretise that as an identifying Life Philosophy, is as obvious and natural as that idea that one should try and breathe oxygen, wherever possible.

And in a population of 350 million, with a heavy and pervasive martial History and Present, it would be statistically anomalous if, every now and then, one of those Americans (probably a male) will elevate their personal ideology pathologically - with pathological consequences.

It isn't the specifics of the politics or religion that provokes the pathological violence: it is the perceived insult to and defamation of an individual, interpreted through an attack on their chosen ideology - *WHATEVER* that chosen ideology is.

A person may criticise or attack my personal ideologies, philosophies and politics, but I would view that as being directed at abstract concepts that I happen to (currently) identify with. In other words: I wouldn't take it personally.

But in many Americans, it appears evident that there *IS* a deep-rooted and personal attachment to their ideologies: attacking their thoughts and ideas is akin to personally attacking their identity.

And every now and then, as must statistically occur in a nation so large, with firearms to readily available, someone will manifest their reaction to these "attacks", in a real and physical way.

But that's not a consequence of politics: it is Culture, Society, and the Human Condition.

[face_peace]