In Reply To #19

In Reply To #16

2. Religions are a product of Culture, not the other way around. A religion wouldn't get off the ground in a Culture hostile to it.

I am not so sure about that.  I am quite certain the Native Americans were instinctively pretty hostile to Christianity, but that did not stop the European white-man from beating the love of Jesus into the locals.

Christianity is not the Religion of the Native American Culture though Foota.

European Culture has certainly prevailed over the Native American Culture, and amongst European Americans, Christianity is certainly the dominant religion. But European Americans brought their Religion along with them as a part of their cultural baggage. They used their belief in the supremacy of their Culture to violently suppress the native culture; and then used the cultural accessory that is their religion, to morally legitimise this action to themselves.

The supremacy of a Culture does not automatically equate to a military supremacy Foota. It was easier for the more martial Culture of Europe to militarily and violently dominate the Native American Culture.

And to the best of my knowledge, Native American Cultural Heritage has still not been completely displaced by European Culture amongst those Native American families that survived the European's genocide. At least, certainly not the more esoteric aspects of Native American Culture, which seem if anything to have affected European Culture more than they have been affected by it.

I am also pretty certain that Jewish diaspora has lived in pretty hostile climates most of their existence, yet their religion and culture still thrives despite pograms, Holocaust and anti-Semitism.

Remember my original point Foota:

• 2. Religions are a product of Culture, not the other way around. A religion wouldn't get off the ground in a Culture hostile to it.

The example of Judaism more or less completely proves that point Foota.

The Jewish Religion is the product of a Culture at least 3,500 years old. The Hebrews are, more or less, the oldest surviving group of humans in civilisation. It is important, for this reason to be careful with the use of the phrase "anti-Semitism". "Semitic" is primarily a linguistic term, and only subsequent to its correct usage has it become to be a more cultural and ethic term. Arabs are Semitic people, and Arab Culture is a part of Semitic Culture.

Point is, that Jewish people have just about the oldest, most established and most perfected Culture in Humanity today. Jewish people have done what all families and societies should do: learn to rely on one another. And the Jewish people are very self-reliant: they've had to be.

Because of the hostility that Jewish people have been exposed over the centuries, there are far fewer of them than their deserves to be, just like the Native Americans. There deserves to be more Jewish people and more Jewish culture precisely because their culture is so old: New Culture can learn so much from Old Culture.

Unfortunately, Jewish culture has also had to learn to be insular, and it is this insularity and isolation that can make other cultures hostile to it. This aspect of Jewish culture is most visible - as in all cultures - amongst those who practice and preach an orthodox or ultra-orthodox interpretation of their culture's religion, but it is less a religious aspect than a cultural one.

And unfortunately, Judaism has never gotten off the ground in cultures that are hostile to it. Often, sadly, and to Humanity's lasting shame, it has ended up IN the ground.

Look at Iran today.  Iran has a rich history from the times of Persia and Zoroastrianism where secular and religious people lived side by side.  Yet "political Islam" from the time of the 1979 Islamic Revolution has been able to shape their culture into a more theocratic form of Shiism that can be every bit as radical as Sunni Wahabbism. Ditto for the once considered secular Palestinians, as they democratically elect an openly Islamist and anti-Semitic government (Hamas). I guess all I am saying is that Religion can also shape culture, and culture can change pretty fast.  Particularly when we are dealing with negative birth rates.

I think this was a point I made in my previous post.

It is social and political suppression of the majority of the population by a minority that seems to inevitably produce radical and extreme interpretations of a culture's religion.

It isn't that Islam is an inherently violent religion. One would need to read the principle Islamic scripture in the original language to validate or invalidate that statement. But if one uses one's common sense, one can see that different individuals are going to read different meaning into different passages of scripture, depending upon their state of mind and well-being.

Islamic scripture, like Christian and Jewish scripture, is merely an expression of a cultural identity. In each of those cases that identity is 1,300, 2,000 and 3,500 years old respectively. In all cases: way past their sell-by date.

No other historical writing gets read in so out-of-context a way as religious scripture. The lack of context inherent in a non-Historian's reading of a one-and-a-half, two or three-and-a-half thousand year old document leaves the door open for infinite ambiguity.

Social and political extremists use their own extremist interpretation of their culture's prevailing religion to morally legitimise their actions and provide mass appeal.

Often works, too.

I'm sorry Foota, but I see no evidence that even a majority of Islamic immigrants in the UK (or Europe) want to force their culture on their adopted country.

I agree, but it does not take a majority when a few radicals can use violence to achieve goals beyond their numbers.

Think about that statement Foota.

I think that statement cuts to the heart of our dialogue.

You know what my position is:

I do not believe that violence ever resolves anything more positive than a sporting competition.

That means, that not only do I believe that Western violence will never achieve anything, I also believe that Islamic violence will never achieve anything either. You see a minority of "a few radicals" amongst more than a billion Muslims dispersed around the World, and you believe that they CAN achieve "goals beyond their numbers", using violence.

I do not believe that violence on the part of a few radical Muslims, or even the entirety of Muslim Society can achieve ANYTHING.

I see a minority of "a few radicals" in The White House, amongst more than 300 million Americans.

YOU believe that those Neo-Conservative "radicals" can achieve "goals beyond their [the Neo-Conservatives'] numbers", using violence.

I do not.

Think about it Foota. Think about what we as a Global Society have learned over the past 10,000 years. Think about what we've learned about altering our individual and cultural identities under the threat of violence.

Last century, the Jewish People did not lose or even compromise their individual or cultural identities, not even under the most horrendously violent of provocation.

Those who DID compromise, and lose their individual identities to the Nazi ideology, were Germans.

And Hitler didn't use violence to coerce Germans into surrendering their individual identities to the Nazi culture, he used ideas. He used ideas about Germans, on Germans, and most Germans bought those ideas with their own identities. He used positive ideas, attractive ideas, flattering ideas and morally appropriate ideas. He might even have used some realistic ideas, but I doubt it.

Hitler may have decimated Humanity's Jewish population, but he only served to strengthen and harden the Culture he tried to destroy. That failure of his is his ultimate damnation. What Hitler did manage to do was destroy the German cultural identity. Everything that Bismarck had so carefully created, Hitler destroyed in one genocidal era of Human Madness.

It has taken much pride in German industry and sporting prowess to rebuild the shattered collective German psyche. Which goes to show the validity of my point: that not even self-inflicted violence achieves anything of any lasting damage.

I'm not saying that we do not have to be mindful of the lessons we have learned, and practice those lessons as effectively as we can in our collective lives.

But I AM saying that we don't have to see potential Totalitarian Dictators at every turn.

There is a question of capacity and capability for violence that has to be factored into any violent threat assessment.

If we factor in ONLY intent, we'll never get to sleep at night.

Peace