In Reply To #14

In Reply To #13

So at what point do we draw the boundaries of "our" culture? At which points do we say that our culture begins and ends, and any deviation outside of those parameters is unacceptable? When do we declare our cultures finalised and subject to no more revision from external contributions?

Peace

Ah...now we are touching the 4th rail of the discussion.

It most certainly does come down to culture.  Where does culture come from?  I believe most people's culture are mostly formed by their religious background and ethnic heritage.  Even athiests in Europe and the US can thank their country's Judeo/Christian religious philosophy for the atheist-tolerant society they live in today.  Do you suppose Europe's enlightenment could have occurred in an Islamic Wahabbi culture found in Saudi Arabia, Yemen or Pakistan?

Okay, few points here then:

1. Yes, social cultures are formed through ethnic heritage, and are usually tied to geographic and environmental conditions.

2. Religions are a product of Culture, not the other way around. A religion wouldn't get off the ground in a Culture hostile to it. For every religion that has endured (Judaism, Christianity, Islam) in the West, there are many, many more that have not.

3. And yes, Europe's Enlightenment happened within precisely the same kind of archly-fundamentalist religious cultural environment as we see today in some Islamic nations. The fundamentalist Catholic Theocracy that was the Vatican dominated Europe politically and culturally for nearly a 1,000 years between the fall of the Roman Empire, and the Reformation. The Reformation was just the first political process that Europe's Age of Enlightenment facilitated. The various European Inquisitions and multiple religious pogroms created at least the same kind of oppression in Medieval Europe as we see today in many of the more Medieval parts of the Middle East.

Am I a bigot to claim that "Western Culture" (at least Anglo-Saxon culture) is superior (more enlightened) to Islamic culture (as defined by Sharia law and Wahabbism) in terms of:

- Women's rights?

- Gay rights?

- Religious freedom?

- Tolerance?

- Human Rights?

- Pluralism?

That's not so much a bigoted claim as it is an arrogant one.

The rights you mention - Women's, homosexuals and Human - aren't quite as enshrined in Western Culture as you suggest. Sure, they are more likely and more assured in Western Culture, but they are by no means a given.

And also, bear in mind that you are not representing Islam as a whole, but rather just a handful of Islamic Societies. One could just as easily point to a handful of unrepresentative Christian, and, uh, Jewish groups to see how the rights you've listed would be rapidly erased if those equally fundamentalist groups took charge.

It's nothing to do with Religion.

Religion is, as someone once said, "The opiate of the masses". We see the most extreme interpretations and practice of religions (ALL religions) in societies and cultures where pluralism isn't evident, and where the lives of the ordinary person isn't much different to the life of the average Medieval peasant.

If you look at Saudi Arabia specifically (but also Yemen and certain of the Arab Emirates), you see an horrendous amount of human oppression, sourced in the ruling oligarchies of a handful of elite individuals. Extreme and radical interpretations of religion, as a way of anaesthetising the common individual from the worst excesses of the oppressor, is a practice that is as old as the hills.

It is, after all, how Moses more or less founded Judaism. The "extreme" and "radical" nature of Moses' teachings simply being implicit in reaction to the prevailing authority (the Pharaohs).

Who is to say that executing homosexuals in wrong?

A pluralistic majority of any given Society or culture.

Aren't you just being insensitive to certain people's interpretation of Islam by making a stand on gay rights?  Ditto for the misogynist label of the burqa, arranged marriages, and female circumscision.

No, I'm not being insensitive, because I'm not criticising Islam or Islamic Culture.

I'd campaign tirelessly to prevent the kind of cultural practices you mention becoming the norm (or even legal) in the Society I live in (currently: British Society). At the very least, if a majority of British Society (whatever ethnic or cultural make-up it was) decided to implement those kind of cultural practices, I'd move to a Society that more harmoniously reflected my views.

But fortunately, I can probably put off calling the removal men, because there simply is no chance or probability whatsoever of any of those practices becoming the norm in the UK. And to try and suggest otherwise is to waste a lot of debating time.

How I feel about those practices continuing in societies and cultures I do NOT live in is another matter.

I look at the Human Race as a whole, the way it behaves towards itself, the way it treats itself, and find no end of things to complain and rail about. As you know.

But one has to pick one's fights, doesn't one?

Should I spend my time castigating Muslims for their barbaric cultural practices? Or should I spend my time castigating Westerners for their barbaric cultural practices, such as its relentless obsession with and belief in the efficacy of organised violence?

Western military, diplomatic and economic practices cause FAR more death and suffering around the World than anything a few Third World cultures can muster. And since it seems like people like your good self have got all the angles covered in telling Islamic Society and cultures where they're going wrong, it doesn't look like you need my help.

In which case, I'll spend my time identifying, protesting and acting against the iniquities and deficiencies of MY OWN Society, before I go around killing other people because they haven't got THEIR houses in order.

You know: people in glass houses... "Let he who is without sin..." And all that.

If you had a general referendum on culture in the EU (where the people voted - not just EU technocrats) to decide if Europe should allow their laws to adopt portions of Sharia law to accomodate immigrants - how do you think it would turn out?

It would be rejected; just as the EU technocrats version of how THEY believe Europe should be run was also rejected.

Bottom line, I would not choose to become an immigrant to any other society and demand that the society conform to my culture and traditions from America.  Particularly if I claimed I was fleeing a society because I was being persecuted.  Why would I try to force the culture (of a society that I claim is persecuting me) to my adopted country?

I'm sorry Foota, but I see no evidence that even a majority of Islamic immigrants in the UK (or Europe) want to force their culture on their adopted country.

I know that there are a handful of extremist cabals and sects that would like to see that happen; but there is an extremist cabal in the White House at the moment that wants to see American culture forced on most of the Rest of the World too.

And if the Neo-Conservatives, with all their military and economic muscle, and their ability to organise (most of) a whole country can't force their culture on others; what chance do a bunch of radicalised, extremist religious nut-jobs from the Third World have?

I think you're problem here Foota is that you're bouncing around all over the shop with your focus. One minute you're talking generally; the next you're being uselessly specific. Fact is, you wouldn't allow yourself to be friendly with any extremist Muslim living in the United States, who was trying to impose Middle Eastern Islamic culture on the United States as a whole. So all you've got to go on is sensationalised media reporting to identify the nature and scope of many, many different and varied Islamic attitudes.

Specifically, you can find as many radical Islamic groups with their own anachronistic views on Society as you can find radical Christian and Jewish groups. But they represent a tiny, tiny, tiny - but telegenic - minority of "their" Religion, usually with interpretations of those Religions that are way outside the mainstream.

Generally, Muslims are human, just like you and I; and they are as prone to cultural diversification, experiment and reinterpretation as you or I. They are no more a threat than you or I; and arguably, their culture represents far less of a threat to Humanity as a whole, than the threat presented by the Western Culture of Militarism.

Peace