[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]If you cut through the B.S., there seems to me to be 3 key issues:

1) Europeans have negative birth rates;

2) Europeans are relying on immigrants to make up for the negative birth rates;

3) Some European cultures and identities are not strong enough to assimilate millions of new immigrants without adopting new laws and customs.

The first 2 issues listed above are pretty much beyond dispute.  Based on the comments from the likes of Wundershlung and Holyman, I am not sure issue #3 is even registering with the people yet.  It seems that people who even think about issue #3 are instantly labeled "slack-jawed", BrownShirt, Nazi, BNP member, or a racist. [/color] [/quote]

Hmmm... Let me see if I can't straighten out your confusion Foota.

See, thing is, generally speaking, we Europeans have a pretty fair grasp of History, on the whole. I don't mean that everyone is great with dates and epochs, or can tell you all about social and economic policy in post-Renaissance Italy, or that sort of thing. No, I mean that we all of us [b]*LIVE*[/b] in History.

And by that, I mean that it is nigh on impossible for any European to move anywhere outside his or her home, without being confronted by some or more evidence of at least 3,000 years of Human Social History.

At the very least, there are very few places in Europe where you can't walk out your front door and not see some evidence of Roman civilisation; either in still-standing architecture, town or city names, or most commonly, roads and highways.

There is also plenty of evidence of pre- and post-Roman civilisations and societies, from places like Stonehenge, through the old Viking town of York, right up to the Saxon-Norman battlefields on the south-coast of England.

Oh, and then a shit-load of stuff that happened in the last 1,000 years too, but we Europeans tend to count that as "recent".

Point being that Europeans are very aware of the fact that there really are no "native" Europeans to speak of. The whole continent is a hotch-potch of different ethnicities and cultures that have, since the end of the last Ice Age, migrated, inter-mingled and frequently fought with each other, to leave the giant melting pot that is modern day Europe.

And it's certainly not all about fair-skinned Anglo-Saxons either. The southern part of the Iberian Peninsula was in Moorish hands for a thousand years; Mongolians and the Hun established an Empire that went as far west as the Baltic and, uh, [b]Hun-[/b]gary, only 800 years ago or so; and the Turkish ruled most of Europe south-east of Vienna, right up until only a few hundred years ago.

The reason I mention all of this Foota, is to try and highlight the very different perspectives that you and I have, and the difference between many American and European attitudes.

See, for you, your "culture" and society arrived at its current geographic location only two or three hundred years ago (less for you, because you live in California :)) or so. And it kind of fossilised around the culture of White Power, more or less as soon as it landed in North America and began killing all the native inhabitants of that land.

White, Anglo-Saxon Protestant America is still very resistant to any encroachment by any "foreign" (i.e. non-WASP) culture: it's only a few decades since the U.S. abolished apartheid in its southern states, and African-Americans still get a pretty raw deal, on the whole (a half-black man can only run as President provided he completely repudiates any connection with Black Radicalism...). And as for Hispanics... Well, they've only recently been elevated to 3rd class citizens with the propagandised hatred of all things Islamic pushing Arabs and other Muslims into bottom place.

Point is that Whitey continues to dominate in the U.S., and all other ethnicities - including and perhaps especially Native Americans - are compelled into subordinate roles.

Do you think there could ever be a Native American President of the U.S. Foota? I mean, Evo Morales is President of Bolivia, and many other South American countries Native communities are well represented in national governments. Do you suppose a Native American could ever become the Leader of the Free World Foota?

But that's kind of a side issue, and not really my main point.

My main point is that "we" Europeans don't really see that we own Europe; or even that there is a vital urgency that our ethnic bloodline continues to be the dominant gene ruling the European continent.

We're [b]*ALL*[/b] immigrants in the U.K., and every ethnicity currently living in Europe only arrived in the last three or four thousand years or so.

We're also not afraid to adopt new customs, traditions and laws in Europe either, provided they sit well with and enhance our current sensibilities.

You know, we'd allow certain Islamic banking practices that didn't rely upon usury, but we wouldn't allow American gun culture to become the norm, that sort of thing: we do have [b]*SOME*[/b] discretion.

Generally speaking, anything that involves or creates a lot of unnecessary violence, we ask our guests to leave at the door; but anything that improves the variety of meals that can be ordered by phone and delivered to one's front door, we happily embrace.

Above all though Foota, the big difference is that we don't really mind much if "our bloodline" is diluted or even displaced by non-European ethnicities and culture.

The reason I call you a racist and a Brownshirt Foota, is because you are both.

Obviously you're a Brownshirt because you parrot everything that the Bush Administration feeds you, and can only shout down and barrack any opposition to that propaganda, without ever being able to construct a rational, intellectual case to support your ideas.

And you're a racist because you are obsessing about birth-rates and the assimilation of foreign cultures, traditions, customs and laws.

See, you believe that there is something superior about your own ethnicity and culture, and that you have nothing to learn from or grow with, by understanding or welcoming any cultures foreign to your own.

But mostly it's about your feeling that "your" geography should only be ruled by those who share your ethnicity.

Even though you're about 10,000 miles West of where your ethnicity actually belongs; [b]*AND*[/b] you have to completely ignore all the Native History and graves that your Society is built upon.

If I had to try and ignore all that, [b]*I*[/b] would probably become a Nationalist and a racist Brownshirt too.

Cognitive Dissonance really [b]*CAN*[/b] put you in a bind, can't it Foota. :)

Peace