Look Foota, you've [b]*GOT*[/b] to stop reading the Daily Terrorgraph.

It's read [b]*ONLY*[/b] by retired Brigadiers in Tunbridge Wells, and a very small section of Britain's over-60's population, the one's that are still wondering what the fuck happened to the British Empire, and are desperate to blame that loss on anyone else.

Reading the Daily Terrorgraph, and it's lower middle-class equivalent, the Daily Fail, is only going to reinforce precisely the impression that you and SomeGuy have latched onto, and which is even now reinforcing to the rest of this Community just how gullible you both really are.

Let us instead stick with why you raised the issue of birth rates.

You are what, a fourth or fifth generation immigrant, right Foota?

Your great-great-(or so)-grandparents arrived in the New World what, 150, 200 years ago? Your antecedents near completely wiped out the existing Native American Culture, and replaced it with a hotch-potch of European Cultural attitudes, and Middle Eastern Religion (Christianity and Judaism come from the Middle East Foota, in case you weren't aware... :)).

And aside from a deeply psychotic passion for violence, and a sense of self-righteousness born from Christian Fundamentalism, your country is doing generally okay, right?

Why, it looks as though you may even be on the verge of having an almost-black man as your President; certainly someone with traces of an Islamic heritage, at least.

And that's how it goes Foota. Any culture that tries to freeze dry itself, stagnates and dies. Cultures change constantly and need frequent inputs of fresh blood and traditions.

If one culture or tradition turns out to be stronger or more popular, then so be it. If you want to be a part of that newer, stronger, more popular culture, then you join in with it; if you don't, you won't.

When you talk about immigrants "assimilating" into your Nation's culture, you don't really mean assimilating, you mean conforming. To gain citizenship, immigrants must pass a citizenship test and prove that they are willing to abide by American social mores and traditions.

That's okay, if that's how you want to do it, it's your country, it's up to you. But Europeans don't have such a fanatical grip on their continental or national identities as you Americans. To most Europeans, family and friends come a [b]*LONG*[/b] way before Nationalism or a common, continental cultural identity.

To respond to SomeGuy's most absurd hypothetical, if Westminster Abbey did somehow become a mosque, I really can't imagine that a sufficient number of British Britons would really give a flying fuck. Most Brits are professionally irreligious, and don't visit Westminster Abbey whilst it's a Church of England establishment, and definitely won't visit if it becomes an Islamic establishment.

I hesitate to use the above as an example, because the prospect is so far removed from reality, I shudder at the prospect that you or SomeGuy may come back and try and argue out the possibility even further.

But I really want to try and convince you just how differently Europeans identify themselves, from you flag-loving, American Paid-riots.

The riots in the French [i]banlieus[/i] had little to do with Islamic extremism or immigration, and everything to do with a disaffected and disenchanted French youth of multiple ethnicities.

Same goes for the British youths currently pig-sticking each other as though they were the Jets and Sharks in "West Side Story". Their disaffection has nothing to do with their ethnicity or their religion, and everything to do with the feeling that Society really doesn't give a fuck about them.

See, in Europe, despite the best efforts of piss-poor rags like the Daily's Terrorgraph and Fail, we Europeans are a Society of Individuals, who really owe no allegiance to any flag or religion, let alone any political group or another.

You know:

"God Save the Queen

The fascist regime

They made you a moron

Potential H-bomb

God Save the Queen

She ain't no human being

There is no future

In England's dreaming"

And that was someone singing in 1977 Foota, we've moved on quite a bit since then.

There really is no fear of an Islamic usurpation of European Culture, because Islam isn't seen any differently to Christianity, Judaism, Conservatism or Liberalism.

Islam is treated with precisely the same contempt that Europeans treat Americanism.

It's a violent anachronism that has no place in our Future.

We respect people's right to be Muslims, just as we respect people's right to be Americans; but that doesn't mean we're going to cut them any slack, or allow their outmoded way of doing things to impact or penetrate our individual lives or way of thinking.

I realise that this must all sound horribly perverse and utterly incongruous to you Foota, because you have no way of identifying yourself outside of a Religio-Nationalistic framework. But in Europe, we tend to respect those who display and develop their own individuality; and despise those who hide behind collective ideologies and group-think.

Not every European, I grant you: there are still a dwindling few who, like the Telegraph and Mail readers, cling to fading ideas of their own greatness. But on the whole, European culture, such as it is, encourages people to think for themselves.

And it really doesn't matter what bloodline you're from: a decent sort of a person is a decent sort of a person regardless of their ethnic, religious or cultural traditions.

And racist wankers are still racist wankers, whether they are British Nationalist, Islamic Extremists, or American Fascists.

Peace