Yes, of course.

It is promulgated by and carries the legitimacy of the International Community, as acclaimed by the United Nations endorsement.

To cite the obvious certainty of National Interest on the part of some of the major participants - the US & UK - is a bit mean-spirited, and kind of misses the point.

Nothing ever happens for a single reason; nothing ever has a single cause; and nothing ever has a single effect.

There are many complex reasons why the crisis in Darfur is taking place, it can not simply be put down to the primitive and barbaric actions of sociopaths. And whilst the complex ethnic, religious, political, nationalist, and of course, Economic motivations behind the situation in Sudan are tremendously difficult to comprehend and understand, there is a very clear and basic situation taking place.

And that is that many human beings are needlessly dying.

There are no less complex reasons why the International Community has failed to act sooner, and why it is choosing to act now, in the manner it is acting. And those reasons will continue to effect the quality and effectiveness of the International Community's response to the situation in Sudan.

But that doesn't change the fact that if the International Community can prevent at least some human beings from dying needlessly, then it should.

And apparently, it now is going to.

Frankly, I don't care if the US and UK, or anyone else for that matter, is going to ensure that it gains a strategic benefit from insertion of UN Peacekeeping Forces in Sudan. They key point is that the UN Forces go in, and mitigate at least some of the carnage.

Right now, I think if the International Community can show how Humanitarian Assistance, delivered and protected by a multilateral military force, working under a Police mandate, CAN be done effectively, it will be a major evolutionary step forward for Human Society.

Juxtaposed next to the worsening catastrophe of Iraq, a UN Peacekeeping Mission to Sudan that reduces the violence, enforces basic Humanitarian norms, and creates the conditions whereby the Sudanese can peacefully decide amongst themselves how they are to go on, as a Society, would be just the fillip.

And I can see no reason why the UN Mission to Sudan should fail.

It is, after all, not a question of military capability, but one of legitimacy.

Peace