Dear Ms. Thunberg,

Firstly, please allow me to add to the congratulations you have rightly received for the progress you have made in the last year.

My name is Steve Winspear, and I have been working as an IT Systems support analyst, engineer and now consultant for 30 years, primarily in the City of London. My clients are usually Tier 1 Investment Banks, the names of which you will be entirely familiar with.

I am currently working with the Royal Bank of Canada to help ensure that their new flagship office in London, is an environmental exemplar in the way it co-actively interacts with the buildings' users (it will be: I'm ensuring it).

I have a complete and full understanding of the entire Global financial system. How it continues to exist; how it became what it has become; and what alternatives to the current management of Human Economics are so desperately needed. I also have a fairly comprehensive and up-to-date understanding of Global political affairs; mostly gleaned from, shall we say the "Supply-Side".

Developed out of dinner-party conversation, I created a piece called "The Future of Money", which I presented to members of the Ministry of Sound's shared workspace on London's South Bank, in May, 2019.

https://theministry.com/

That presentation looks at:

Where the human need/desire for money came from

What money actually is

How money is created in the Modern Economyhttps://www.bankofengland.co.uk/quarterly-bulletin/2014/q1/money-creation-in-the-modern-economy

How citizens of Financialised Economies have been purposefully driven into becoming debt slaves; with no Spiritual energy left at the end of their working days to take care of their own neighbours, much less people on the other side of the World

How Money is the Cancer that is destroying our Planet, just as it destroys our minds

How Humanity MUST get off "Money" within the next two years or so, if it is to avoid extinction within 30 years

Alternatives to Money

The Choice: Money; or the World, but you can't have both.

This presentation was very well received, and I have been invited back on numerous occasions since to the Ministry to continue my discourse. Subsequent talks I have given have looked at the role that Banking has played, does play and could play in Society.

At the end of August this year, I gave a talk entitled "The Decline & Fall of the United States", linking the aspect of domination the U.S. projects over the Globe, to the greatest financial swindle ever carried out on human beings - which is still on-going.

It isn't a massive secret that the Modern Financial System is based on debt. However, most people just aren't aware how much debt there is clogging up the System, and holding back Human Progress.

This primarily because the "High Priests of Economics" are employed to befuddle and beguile, like some low-rent bar magician, in order to steer people away from the Top Tables where the "Real [sic] Money" is made (by those who have forced their way, usually ruthlessly, onto a seat at the Top Table).

I am not a "Whistle-blower" Ms. Thunberg. At least I don't think I am. There is nothing Company- or Regulatory-Confidential in anything I present. All of it is Public Domain material. All of it verifiable, during my presentations, if required. (It rarely is: I am almost as convincing as you!)

All I do is take what I know and put it into a format that other people seem to be able to comprehend. I can Explain any System. That's basically my core revenue-generating activity: helping others make sense of and improve their Systems, to that those Systems can better serve those who operate the System.

I cannot have a Social Media presence. My (woefully neglected) LinkedIn page is all there is of me on the Internet.

I got my first Internet eMail address in 1990, and was using the 'Net to communicate with friends on the U.S. Academic networks. I cannot recall when I say my first graphic-rich "Web" page on a screen I owned, but it wouldn't have been long after Dr. Berners-Lee put all the pieces together in the right way.

I have a handful of Personal-Network-Only websites; and a boiler-plate company website that I'm not sure if I'm still paying the fees for or not...

Other than that, just a sparsely used blog site at: oneworld.blog

I cannot be directly associated on Social Media, with any of the material I am presenting. If my name is ever linked to the ideas I have about eliminating money (quickly) from Society; I will immediately lose my ability to progress that cause. A cause I strongly feel is a necessary requisite for you to progress your course more freely.

It wouldn't be catastrophic if I was linked to anything subversive or seditious. I just wouldn't be able to work for the Banking Sector anymore; and I very much enjoy helping to eliminate old paradigm Banking. I honestly do feel that I can best help Humanity and therefore the Planet, by continuing to work with the Banking System:

to change Banking Culture

to define a new role for banks as Honest-Brokers, and as Supply-Chain Managers and Regulators

to help Banks and bankers stop being a (major) part of the Problem; and start being part of the Solution.

It is on that last note really that I write to you Ms. Thunberg.

I can walk you onto just about any Trading Floor in London, and easily arrange for you to give a televised speech from there. What I can also do is shut-down any objections that are raised. About anything you are saying that has any kind of Economic aspect.

And I do mean ANY objections. At all. My knowledge of their Systems allows me to deliver a cast-iron and unimpeachable case for why they are wrong.

It's really fun watching their faces go red when that happens... And it happens quite a bit.

Because just as 99% of human beings do not really understand this "Money" thing that completely dominates more or less every moment of their Waking Existence...

...99% of the people who work in the Banking Sector do not have the slightest clue what is going on or what it is they are supposed to be contributing to.

I suppose this Email is primarily a suggestion to meet with you at some point, with a clear agenda to discuss how we might effectively align our activities. But it must also of course include mention of the tremendous admiration I have for you Ms. Thunberg.

If my reading of the "Earth System" is correct, then you are quite probably the anthropomorphic manifestation of that System's Emergent Intelligence.

On which basis: I offer any and all of my experience and skill on an entirely pro bono basis.

I can easily dismantle the Old System - that's underway in any case. The thing is hopelessly out-of-date, irretrievably corrupted, and in System Engineer jargon, earns the label "W.T.U." ("Worse Than Useless"; i.e. situations would be markedly improved, simply by removing the WTU.

I think what you are doing, and have clearly been magnificently born to do, is telling people that they do have a Choice.

That a Better Future Outlook is possible

That widespread, radical acceptance that the Human Race is facing extinction is a vital precursor to immediate and radical Social Change

And how a "Bolt-On" doesn't get to reject the Host:The HOST decides who stays and who goes.

It is a privilege and an honour to be sharing space on this Planet with you, at a Time like this.

My very best wishes,

Steve

P.S. To Whom It May Concern:

I fully appreciate that Ms. Thunberg is a righteously busy person at the moment! Please infer any of my direct addressing of Ms. Thunberg to include anyone within any organisation related to or working in support of Ms. Thunberg's cause.

In other words: I would be happy to discuss the contents of this message with anyone who is intrigued by it!

P.P.S. But if a copy of this letter does manage to find its way to Ms. Thunberg's attention, I would be enormously grateful.