[quote="Hoff"][color=#400080]all of that would fall apart as everyone defaulted on each other and refused to loan to each other; suddenly most of the economy's money would vanish. but firms cant just decrease their prices much because they're all gonna go bankrupt; it cost 100 bucks to produce that widget they aint gonna sell it for 20 bucks and continue to exist as a going concern.

the ensuing price decreases (deflation) would raise the debt burden of anyone with a loan (most people) by >9000 as well, and theyd soon go bankrupt too. soon enough every cunt would be destitute and cracking each other over the head with rocks to steal their food[/color][/quote]

You go bankrupt when you can't pay what you owe.

If you don't owe anything, because the institution that you owed money to has vanished through bankruptcy, then it's difficult to see how you would go bankrupt.

Fact is that, like you say Hoff, the Banking System creates cash out of thin air through the manufacture of loans. Whilst retail lending is an important element in the Banking System's Debt Pyramid, it pales in significance when compared to the very short-term (overnight) lending that takes place between banks on any given day.

This was why everything crashed so spectacularly quickly, immediately that one big bank - Lehman Brothers - was allowed to collapse.

By contrast, retail and corporate borrowers make loan repayments usually on a monthly basis. It's a strong, steady flow of income to the Banking System, but as just about anyone is aware, you've got to fall 2 - 3 monthly repayments behind before your bank, building society (S&L) or credit card company starts getting really upset.

Compare that with what happens when a bank can't repay today what it borrowed yesterday, and you see that the entire Banking System would evaporate in a cloud of unfulfilled debt obligations, before most ordinary people have even finished eating their breakfasts.

The most likely course of events, as and when the Global Banking System finally suffocates under the weight of all of the debt it has created, is that the Governments of the World will immediately nationalise all of the banks that are in their own jurisdictions.

Since we're all using currency that is guaranteed by government fiat, and since the Private Banking Sector is dependent upon the (National) Central Bank System, it is those governments who are the ultimate Creditor in the whole mess. And since Governments in OECD countries are - notionally at least - Democratic, this means that actually, it is the Human Beings in those nations who are the ultimate creditors.

And at the point at which all debt repayments are being made to the Government, it would be a fairly short, swift, sensible and practical step to declare a Debt Moratorium.

Debt Moratoriums are not unprecedented, or even unusual (though they are obviously usually opposed by (private-sector) creditors): the [url=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hoover_Moratorium]Hoover Moratorium[/url] being probably the most well-known of recent times.

Debt Moratoriums were in fact a fairly common occurrence in the Classical World. New Roman Emperors frequently declared such moratoriums upon their accession, since it was an easy way to curry favour with the Plebians, and always helped the Economy by giving it a much needed shot in the arm.

[url=http://www.gutenberg.org/files/6762/6762-h/6762-h.htm#link2H_4_0067]Book V of Aristotle's "Politics"[/url] describes the inevitable transformations of ruling elites, where oligarchies will always try and make themselves into hereditary aristocracies, which will in turn be overthrown by tyrants or be brought low by internal rivalries (Tea Party, anyone?). Someone within those oligarchies will decided to "take the multitude into their camp", and usher in democracy, from within which, a new oligarchy emerges, and the cycle begins again.

And the fuel for this Cycle has always been Debt.

Debt polarises wealth and creates a "Creditor Class", thus is born the Oligarchy: Society is ruled by those who are owed the most - not those who have the most.

But sooner or later, someone comes along (Hitler is an obvious, recent example) and wins popular support by repudiating and/or cancelling debts. And when a sufficient critical mass of Society decides to, "Fuck paying those debts anymore!": the Oligarchy whose existence was owed to the fact that people were continuing to honour their debts, disappears. It is replaced by a (usually fairly briefly) Populist Government, and everyone rejoices and celebrates; until, after a given period of Time, debt obligations begin to re-emerge, and power starts oozing back towards those who are owed the most money.

So it is fair to say, I think, that it is *NOT* the case that a Debt Moratorium to resolve Humanity's current Economic predicament, is unlikely and/or unthinkable.

Much fairer I think, to say that such a Moratorium is not only inevitable: it is a vital and critical component of the overall Socio-Economic Cycle.

:>_