[quote=Slates00][color=green]When I think of a failure of a banking institution, I envision said bank laying claim to their assets, and selling them off.  This doesn't mean Joe Homeowner made a gamble when he bought his house, it just means he pays his mortgage to Bank B instead of A.[/color][/quote]

And in the normal course of affairs, that's the kind of process that would normally play out.

Say your mortgage was with a smaller, perhaps family-run local bank, and that bank collapsed under the weight of its debts; then your mortgage debt would be assumed by the bank higher up the food-chain, to whom the local bank owed its money.

But what we're talking about at the moment are the banks at the very top of the food chain: the Wall Street commercial and investment banks. These are banks whom, largely thanks to the repeal of the Glass-Stegall Act, were allowed to participate in traditional retail banking business.

Their debts are actually between each other. Due to the creation of complex and arcane debt derivative instruments, and the magic of compound interest, these banks have created a debt-bubble between themselves that is more monstrous and terminal than anything seen before.

Where these banks owe money outside of their own incestuous circles, it is to foreign Sovereign Wealth Funds: national investment vehicles owned by foreign governments, particularly China and the petro-economies like Saudi Arabia and the Emirates.

It is feasible that American's mortgage debt could be assumed, through the bankruptcy of the original lender, by the Government of the People's Republic of China (for example); but since the PRC lobby in Washington D.C. is not (yet) as powerful as Wall Street's lobby ($200 million plus in campaign contributions last year), it isn't clear that the U.S. Government would rigorously enforce American citizen's debt obligations to the Chinese Government.

[quote=Slates00][color=green]I fail to see how the fraud and corruption seen today at high levels (seen today because they are being outed and charged) sends a message thats its ok to do so.  They should be prosecuted to the full extent of the law for their transgressions.  They should take responsibility for their actions, as should Joe Homeowner. [/color][/quote]

It's not really about civil or criminal punishment at this stage, not yet, that may come later, if it comes at all.

What it is about at the moment is whether or not the banks that these fraudsters and flim-flam men worked and continue to work for, will remain in business.

Forget individual personal responsibility, this is about whether or not there will be functioning business entity to which debts must be repaid.

[quote=Slates00][color=green]What about me?  I bought a house that I can afford.  Where is my reward?  Why punish me (increased taxes, no "bailout") for living within my means and reward my neighbor who could barely afford the 5% down payment on his house?

Your issue seems to be that one class of people (CEO's, etc) were treated as special citizens and that caused these problems.  Your solution seems to be to treat another class of people as special citizens instead.  That doesn't sound like progress to me.  [/color][/quote]

What I actually said was that this has nothing to do with fairness, or morality: it has everything to do with the so-called "Free Market".

What [b]YOU[/b] are talking about Slates, is government intervention to ensure a fair outcome that rewards those whose behaviour was responsible and good; and which holds people whose behaviour was irresponsible to their obligations.

That can only be down with State or Socialist intervention; the Free Market has no mechanism for ensuring "Fair Play".

As it is, the State intervention that [b]*IS*[/b] taking place right now, is rewarding - or at least protecting/preserving - those whose massive irresponsibility created this mess. Whether the great unwashed of Main Street deserve punishment or reward, is decidedly a side issue at the moment.

[b]YOU[/b] are not being actively punished or rewarded by any political or social group: you are merely experiencing the vicissitudes of Life on the Waves of the Free Market.

You believe that you did the "Right" (righteous) and moral thing, by buying a house that you could afford, and living within your means. But that was a decision you made before you could possibly know how conditions within the Free Market were going to play out.

What exactly defines what is righteous and virtuous in Economic and Financial matters?

Is it a question of moral probity and social equitability? Or is it a question of who materially benefits the most?

If it turns out that those who took out mortgages they couldn't afford end up as winners, because the institutions they borrowed money from collapse, is that a cause for indignation because of something that is socially or economically unfair?

In the "Free Market" ideology, all financial transactions are inherently uncertain. Sometimes it is a good idea to save and live within your means; other times it seems that it is a good idea to borrow money and live life to the full.

You were cautious, others were incautious; you lived within your means, others were greedy and impulsive. I completely understand how you would consider the scenario I have outlined as completely unfair (to you). But since when has the Free Market ever been about fairness?

[b]*I*[/b] don't think that the Free Market has ever been fair; but then I don't believe that the "Free Market" has ever been particularly Free either. I think it has always been dominated, influenced, and to a degree controlled by those with the most money and the most power. I think a more structured and controlled Economic System could and would be much fairer. But if you or I want a "fair" system, then we need to start talking about Socialism or Communism; and those are ideologies that haven't really been in vogue for a while, particularly in your country.

Personally, I think we all need to go right back to the Drawing Board, and devise a new Economic System that takes into account all positive considerations about fairness, equitability, and reward for individual effort and ingenuity. Communism clearly didn't work, and it is becoming apparent that so-called "Free Market" Capitalism hasn't worked either. I suspect though, that between those two extremes, there must be a more stable and sustainable Economic System just waiting to be implemented.

The problem is that at the moment, whilst the Guardians of the current Capitalist Order still hold the excessively dominant influence that they do, we can't really create the space for something new.

Though I'm quietly confident that this situation is no undergoing inevitable and irreversible Change. :)

[face_peace]