[quote=Manus_Justus][color=green]I do disagree, however, with your method of brining about true democracy.  I would like to see government power more centralized, with the continued advancement of unifying organizations such as the EU, NAFTA, UN, and the like.  Power doesn't need to be held at a local community level to make power more equitable.  We can become more democratic by using technology to get citizens more involved in government, for example by even adding a clause where major bills have to be voted on everyone electronically.

It would make controversial issues like stem cell research, gay marriage, war, and the stimulus easier to deal with.[/color][/quote]

The problem with over-centralised democratic Government, as I see it, is that it has always had a tendency to become weighed down by its own bureaucracy.

Throw in the immutable aspects of the Human Condition, and we also see that too much power over too many other people, invested in a small or unitary executive body, has the seemingly unavoidable consequence of corrupting that body, no matter how well intentioned their aspirations and ambitions.

I should emphasise however that I'm talking very much about the apparatus and application of power, rather than political or ideological identity. As you may recall, I fully believe in the idea of a single, global, Human Nation, politically connected and indivisible along racial, ethnic, nationalistic or geographic lines.

I believe that there are tiers of policies and rules that are applicable to different stratum of collective human lives. It is about defining those tiers and stratum to delineate zones of control.

As I mentioned in my previous post, the United States already has an excellent model for this, as envisaged by at least some of the Founding Fathers, at least those who held States' Rights above the power of the Federal Government.

Let's take two of the examples you have given: War and Gay Marriage.

To my mind, policies regarding War should and must be deliberated and shaped at the highest level of any defined Society (in the classical American Republic model, this means Congress rather than the President). Once those policies have been determined, they should then be submitted to the most pluralistic of votes, i.e. the entire population.

(Of course, I am also a Pacifist, so I don't believe that any Society or nation should ever [b]*CHOOSE*[/b] or decide to go to War; but should only be prepared to fully defend itself if War is declared on that Society. And from that point, I'd say that the decision to fight would be almost automatic, based on fairly obvious criteria, such as a land invasion, bombardment or attack on sovereign territory.)

I believe this to be the case because a Society embarking to War is a decision that will very likely have short-term negative consequences for the Whole Society; and if all doesn't go well, will also create long-term negative consequences for that Whole Society. Therefore it is a decision that must be made at the highest level of authority; though by "highest level", I don't mean the most important individual (in a True Democracy, no-one is more important than any other) makes the decision, I mean the deliberations are held at the most representative level for the Whole Society, and the decision by the greatest practical plurality.

Gay marriage, by contrast, is something that a central or Federal Government really shouldn't need to concern itself with. That isn't to say that gay marriage isn't or shouldn't be of concern to people - it clearly is - just that it is a classic example of a policy that can and should be determined at the Community level, on a Community-by-Community basis.

If a democratic majority of a certain Community declares and decides upon a prohibition on same-sex marriages, then so be it, that is their right. Equally, if another Community decides it really couldn't give a fig if same-sex partners wish to enter into recognised marriages, then that is also their right. And finally, if a Community believes that same-sex marriages should be promoted and proclaimed superior to heterosexual marriages, then that's cool too, [b]*IF*[/b] a democratic majority of those who live in that Community choose to support that notion.

And I believe this because whilst some people's sensibilities [b]*ARE*[/b] offended by the notion of same-sex marriages, it is a personal choice they make to be offended by such a notion. The negative consequences of War for a member of Society may have to be endured regardless of an initial decision to support that War or not; the negative consequences of same-sex marriages for an individual who disagrees with the idea, are personal and psychological, and could easily be negated by that individual getting some fucking perspective on Life.

That's just two examples of the myriad of possible policies and decisions that Human Beings make about their collectively-lived lives. It is clear that certain policies and decisions can only effectively be managed at the widest aspect of a Society, whilst others can and should be considered and implemented at successively narrower Community stratum.

This isn't pie-in-the-sky thinking, and it certainly isn't original thought; it [b]*IS*[/b] the theoretical model upon which the Republic of the United States of America is founded, and is really so simple and obvious, that it is a wonder it hasn't been made to work.

The actual reason why it hasn't worked is that aspect of the Human Condition that seems to dictate that no human being will ever willingly surrender power or authority; and indeed, once appointed to a position of power and authority, spends the majority of their time trying to accrue yet more power and authority (over others).

The pathology of this is simply that an individual politician or social leader expends so much energy in the pursuit of power (to do good, obviously), that self-protectionism and the preservation of authority becomes the ingrained dictum. This dictum obscures and overrides the exercise of power for the benefit of those whom politicians' positions exist to serve.

I think that the Internet provides an excellent illustration of how a Society can be structured and operate on a more "Peer-to-Peer", rather than "Client-Server" basis.

We all understand certain basic principles of Netiquette, a somewhat established set of rules that functions as the foundations of any viable Internet Community. Built on those foundations are successive sets of rules that define acceptable behaviour and conduct within increasingly narrowly defined communities.

Fundamental to the Democratic Republic of the Internet though, is the understanding that no Netizen likes to be told what to do, or have their natural behaviours controlled or limited. And that's just fine. By and large, a Netizen is free to roam around the multifarious communities on the Internet, until his or her behaviours are accepted by a community that mirrors or tolerates those behaviours.

One of the big problems with over-centralised Government in the Real World, is that with every decision affecting everyone's lives being taken on an increasingly centralised basis, is that it unavoidably seeks to homogenise the lives of Human Beings. There are certain attitudes in the World that I don't necessarily agree with, and perhaps they might even cause me as much personal anguish as that felt by those who disagree with same-sex marriages. But the crucial distinction must be: am I [b]*CHOOSING*[/b] to be offended by other people's behaviour and attitudes; or does their behaviour actually, directly and unavoidably affect my Life in a negative way?

I think that there are fundamental and basic Human Rights and tenets that would exist as the foundation of a Global Society, e.g. prohibitions against murder, violent and sexual crimes, protections of Free Speech, the right to challenge our detention etc. But beyond those basic Freedoms, I think the vast majority of decisions made concerning people's lives, can and should be made at the most narrowly defined levels of Community possible.

Again: this [b]*IS*[/b] the framework envisaged and established by the Founders of the American Republic; and is a mechanism that exists at least nominally in many other Western Democracies. I think that we have the communications technology to practically operate this vision of True Democracy now, as well as the intellectual and emotional emancipation of many members of our Society.

All that remains missing, is the Will to Make It Happen.

Change isn't something you believe in: it is something you Live.

[face_peace]