December 4, 2025

The unanimous Declaration of the eight-and-a-half billion human beings on planet Earth:

When in the Course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people to change the political loyalties that have bound them with others, and to assume the responsibility for more effectively governing their own lives, as they are surely entitled to by the Laws of Nature and Nature's Source, a decent respect for the opinions of Human society requires a declaration of the causes impelling them to separate.

We hold these Truths to be self-evident:

All human beings are created equal

All human beings are endowed through their Creation with certain unalienable Rights

Among these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Love and Happiness.

To secure these rights, Governments are instituted in human societies, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed.

Whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and then to institute new Government, based on the foundational principles and methods of organisation that seem to the People to be most effective at ensuring their Safety and Happiness.

Common sense dictates that long-established governments should not be changed for short-term reasons; and experience has shown that human societies are more disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed.

But when a long train of abuses, corruption, social and environmental devastation, all presented as a vitally necessary "never-ending War", require our children to go without food, medicine, and education, it is the Right, and the Duty, of all People to throw off such government, and to provide new Guards for their future security.

Human governments and the individuals who control those governments have abdicated the responsibilities of the positions they occupy.

A global Pandemic is now being followed by War, Famine, and Disease. The industrial devastation of the only planet human beings can currently survive on continues to accelerate, as Humanity's Scientific Community continues to scream its increasingly dire warnings and alarms. The financial system that is supposed to lubricate Humanity's activities is now so toxic and radioactive it is capable only of causing more and more harm.

All human beings are created Equal.

All human beings remain Equal throughout their lives, though many individual humans spend a great deal of time and resources trying to believe they have not remained Equal.

Human Society on planet Earth in 2025 has now reached the point where our Equality with, and inalienable connections to each other, require our fundamental and complete acknowledgement of our Interdependency on Everyone Else.

Human beings are entirely interdependent on each other, because that is the Society they have Created for themselves.

It is now Time that all human beings celebrate and fully utilize that interdependency, and cease our compulsive dependency on corrupt and corrupting governments and politicians.

We, therefore, the People of the Human World, in General Congress, Assembled, appealing to our Highest Sense of Who We Are, do, in the Name, and by Authority of the good People of Earth, solemnly publish and declare, that these United Colonies of Humanity are, and of Right ought to be Free and Interdependent States; and that as Free and Interdependent States, they have the full Power to communicate, cooperate, and cohabitate with all other Free and Interdependent States.

And for the support of this Declaration, we mutually pledge to each other our Lives, our Fortunes, and our sacred Honour.