[quote=TheEvilFishy][color=red]Having said all that, I HATE REPUBLICANS as much as I hate DEMOCRATS if for no other reason than the ones who were not Republicans in Name Only didn't have the balls or ability to actually let people in on the TRUTH rather than letting their opposition and their handlers in the Media LIE again and again!

The only way a Republican looks good is when you stand his or her record up against a modern Progressive trying to pretend they are a Democrat of the Jeffersonian era that has long past and I use the word "good" in a relative sense as a hooker with 1 STD looks "good" when compared to a hooker with 12 STDs.

Oh and we're not a FUCKING DEMOCRACY!  If people knew what a Democracy actually brought about, they wouldn't want it and the WORST aspects of our Country over the last 2 centuries were brought in by trying to make ourselves more Democratic.

FUCK THAT!  Get the government out of people's lives![/color][/quote]

Good post Fishy.

And not in any way to counter, but to support what you said:

The single biggest problem with "Western Democracies" is...

Money.

The "Election" charades that we are invited to participate in every 2 - 4 or 5 years are preposterous beyond absurdity.

We are given a basic choice between the Red Team or the Blue Team, and asked to press a button to identify our preference. Then we go back to sleep again for another 2 - 4/5 years.

That's it. That's "Western Democracy" in a nutshell. At least as far as the Plebeian Masses are concerned.

"Activism", as far as it can be called that, is confined to rhetorical defences of one's own favoured team, and hyperbolic attacks on the opposing team. And that, almost always, with equally die-hard "activists" who support the opposing team and are no more likely to switch allegiance than you are.

Oh, and if you really get into "Political Activism" in the West, you might sign up to the Official Fan Club of your chosen Team, and you might even be invited to volunteer your time to do some of the monotonous and labour-intensive "Campaigning" that it would be too expensive to pay the Private Sector to do.

That's it though.

It's no different to any other Sport.

The relationship between the Team-owners and the Team-supporters is usually one of mutual contempt; but bound together by the sole expedient of a shared hatred of the opposing Team.

Meanwhile, far from the maddening crowds and the soap-opera villains, heroes and heroines following carefully managed and manipulated scripts, the *REAL* business of Government takes place.

Business these days moves far too fast to wait 2 - 4 years for a shift in legislative or executive power. Business needs fast decisions and fast implementation.

Business money buys the creation of legislation, and the votes on that legislation.

Business money is *WAY* beyond silly partisanship on redundant ideological grounds. Why would an astute businessman only pay one party in a Two-Horse Race; when for a simple 100% premium he can underwrite his bet to *GUARANTEE* the outcome he desires?

All that is required is for money to flow from A to B. And if "A" does it in such a way as to disguise it's origin - easy enough when you have lawyers and accountants on retainer - so much the better for "A". Campaign Funding legislation, like any legislation that is supposed to control the flow of wealth, is constructed to give the [i]appearance[/i] of preventing bribery, without actually preventing it.

The point is that if you, the humble voter, desires a change in legislation, or a general change to the prevailing political ideology, you'll have to wait anything up to five years, before you can press your chosen button, and hope that enough other people press the same button as you.

But if you are a wealthy business or individual, you can exercise your "Democratic Mandate" tomorrow, provided you are willing to stump up the cash.

For example, for £50,000 a year, I can join the British Conservative Party's "The Leader's Group", which guarantees me dinner with the British Prime Minister at least four times a year, and face time more or less whenever I request it.

That's not conspiracy theory, btw, it's actually advertised on the British Prime Minister's political party's website:

http://www.conservatives.com/Donate/Donor_Clubs.aspx

I don't know what the precise pay-scales are for members of the U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate, and the U.S. President (somewhat higher I should imagine), but the same arrangement exists in the States as it does in any other "Western Democracy".

Thing is, we all *KNOW* that this is the case. We all *UNDERSTAND* that this kind of legalised corruption is a matter of course. But rather than being outraged by this farcical pretence of Democracy, we either engage with it as enthusiastic supporters of one team or the other; or we disengage with the whole process completely, and try and live our lives as best as we are able, given the circumstances over which we have no control.

This isn't, by the way EF, a lament for the absence of truly representative democratic government.

I agree with you that Democracy is not an effective form of wide-scale governance, and many if not all of the biggest social and political mistakes of the last two hundred years have been legitimised under the banner of so-called Democratic Mandates.

When the number of people governed democratically moves beyond a certain size - say about 20 people - "Democracy" becomes a Tyranny of the Majority. And since true majorities are increasingly difficult to come by in this day and age, Democracy actually becomes a Tyranny of the Largest Minority.

Republicanism is supposed to be an answer to this, and as I'm sure you are aware EF, James Madison argued comprehensively and convincingly about the weaknesses of Democracy and the strengths of a Republic as a State would grow.

Unfortunately the lack of a widely accepted distinction between the two, and the benefits of maintaining  a popular ambiguity around the terms, means that the noble ideal of - essentially - a Nation State of One Person, United in solidarity with many other Single Person Nation States, has never fully materialised.

And I contest that it never can, whilst there are forces outside of the Union whose presence can be used to justify a Collective Defence that requires a centralised bureaucracy and Executive.

In other words, I don't believe that True Republicanism can ever manifest itself in a Society divided by the concept of Nationalism.

I do believe that we are in a post-ideological World now. The challenges that are faced by Human Society require practical solutions that can be modelled, risk-assessed and transparently measured for performance and effectiveness.

I don't believe that we are at all served by politicians of any political persuasion, whose ideological commitments basically require them to state that they already know what the answer is, before they've even considered the particulars of any problem.

I do believe that we are capable of self-Government. I do believe that no individual should be compelled to do something, just because a sufficient minority of other people have decided that is what should be done (that's not the same as individuals being [i]prevented[/i] from doing whatever they want to do, just because a plurality have criminalised it, btw).

And having spent at least half of my career working with the Central Government of a leading Western Democracy, I can state with some authority that the larger a government apparatus is, the less efficient and effective it is.

And I also recognise that the inefficiency and ineffectiveness is deliberately maintained, because it draws a powerful curtain over the entirely efficient and effective forms of legalised corruption that are ubiquitous in Western Democracies today.

[face_peace]