[quote=Slacks post_id=22323 time=1731061243 user_id=68][color=#008000]Yeah, she kinda behaved like it was an election to lose, and just sat back not taking any risks hoping that Trump's continuing ability to make a tit of himself, and the anti-Trump coalition, would do the job for her.[/color][/quote]

I think the unavoidable conclusion from this latest "Presidential [sic]" Election in the U.S. is that the United States of America is no longer united; and is in fact three different societies.

I'll start with the most important of those three:

Citizens of the (currently-)United States whose primary day-to-day focus is upon their selves, their families and their loved ones; and who, in my personal experience, are generous, courteous, and always sincerely willing to help others.

Americans in this group try to ignore the reliably predictable, tediously repetitive, and increasingly concerning bullshit being shouted (and weaponised) by members of the other two American societies.

Which are of course, the Red and Blue societies.

The Red society we are sadly all too familiar with; and they are, as following this election, they are now in the (political) ascendancy.

Some members of the Red Society can tend to be a bit reactionary.

The Blue society in America base their sole identity on *NOT* being the Red society.

Every bit as reactionary as the majority of Red society members, the increasingly sclerotic "leadership" of America's Blue society base all of their policy positions on just trying to be not quite as dogmatically Right Wing as America's Red society (though as all Western Europeans understand, the U.S. Democrat Party's policies are to the right of all Right Wing political parties in their own countries).

("Right" is a funny old word for that Wing, isn't it? I feel we need a dedicated thread to discuss our use of that term...)

So they are America's three primary societies: Red, Blue, and (let's call them) Purple.

Two of those societies vote in the same elections.

Most members of the Purple Society do not usually vote in those elections.

Not "as-a-rule", but because they all generally feel, "What's the fucking point in participating in these increasingly ridiculous and always irrelevant political gameshows?".

The less dogmatic members of the Purple Society are available to be courted by candidate-politicians of the Red and Blue societies; and it seems that the dwindling numbers of faltering-members of the Purple Society in the so-called "Swing States" in America, are now where these gameshows are won or lost.

Point is that individuals living in the United States of America will either be members of one of the two increasingly-weird societies (Red or Blue); or, they will be able to think for themselves, and choose to focus on their own individual identities and how to build strong relationships with others who also have individual identities...

And they are members of America's Purple Society.

Two-thirds of eligible U.S. voters cast their votes on Tuesday.

Due to the archaic, abundantly-clearly no longer fit-for-purpose, Slave-Trade-Era Constitution (ffs!), which all Americans are encouraged to see as some kind of Holy Writ, these three American (and tbh, it isn't much different anywhere else in the Western World these days) societies continue to participate in shared elections for positions of political and social governance over their lives.

And that approach, as we have been consistently and increasingly seeing over the recent decades (Bill Clinton's election marked the turning point), always results in further division, disharmony, and dispute.

This has nothing to do with the specific individuals who members of the Red and Blue societies nominate as their candidates for these shared elections.

No point attempting to psychoanalyse these individuals. Anyone who desires a position of socio-political authority must always be disqualified from ever being permitted to hold it. Enough said?

It is the archaic, moribund, worse-than-useless electoral framework that a critically fractured society is attempting to use to try and shore-up its now-crumbling glories that is the problem.

The society that currently calls itself the "United States of America" is viciously polarised. It is inconceivable that Americans (or anyone else) could produce a single individual who could be a "Unity Candidate".

Americans are so wired at the moment. Like, the kind of guy you bump into at 07:00 at some random party, who has had so much cocaine that they couldn't get it up, even if they could stop spouting bullshit long enough for someone they might be able to fuck to actually want to fuck them...

Most human beings on Planet Earth are feeling very afraid and uncertain right now. An epidemic of mental and emotional insecurity has followed the biological pandemic of 2020.

Individuals living in the United States have, generally-speaking, always been more mentally and emotionally insecure than their human relatives living in Western Europe. So the additional emotional load that has been increasingly and unceasingly placed on them since the beginning of this twenty-first century, is now really starting to push them over the edge.

In an Ideal Society, the process of selecting from our peers, those who we feel are most capable and competent to lead and guide us, is a positive and festive Experience.

Why would it not be?

Everything is going well after all.

No individual is having to work to survive.

All of the vitally necessary tasks are being delivered reliably, sustainably, and consistently effectively by all of the technology that is available to all human beings today. (It really is available to all of us today, honest. @anyone-other-than-Slacks-who-is-still-reading: *THAT* is a crouton you can pick out of this soup to poke and prod at on our side plates, when you respond to this very important post. 8-) )

Nobody is fighting, anywhere in our World, because... Well... Why would anyone fight?

Nobody is using Money anymore (and that resolved a *LOT* of challenges!).

And we have all learned to live with and love all other human beings, and every aspect of Life that we are all indivisibly a part of.

Given all this, there is not really much need for any real "Leaders". We all understand and agree that our Collective Survival and Evolution is our paramount Purpose as the Human Society.

With that Common Purpose guiding us all, every individual human being, and every individual society created by them, can get on with fulfilling that Purpose in whatever manner they Understand is their most effective way of contributing.

But I'm getting ahead of myself.

Kamala Harris won the election she was a candidate for on Tuesday 5th November 2024.

So did Donald Trump.

Because Kamala Harris was standing as the Blue candidate in the Blue election; and Donald Trump was standing as the Red candidate in the Red election.

With turnout at approximately two-thirds, and the division of votes cast between Red and Blue as near to 50% as shouldn't make a difference these days, the actual result for the United States of America was an even split between its Red, Blue and Purple societies.

The problem being, of course, that the elections that both Trump and Harris won, were held at the same time, and for the same post. :roll:

Ridiculous, isn't it?

I wouldn't interview the same candidates for the roles of lavatory-cleaner and accounts-payable clerk. Two different roles that require different competencies, inclinations, and characters.

Donald Trump is as good as any available candidate in the United States these days to represent what many (if not all) members of America's Red society are feeling. Not my personal cup-of-tea, obviously, but then I am neither a member of America's Red society, nor eligible to vote in American elections.

Same goes for Kamala Harris. I would not ever cast a vote for a candidate with her ideological dispositions and policy-delivery record. But again, not an American Blue society member, so what does it matter what I think?

It *DOES* matter what those who [i]are[/i] eligible to vote in American elections think.

Which is why so many billions of dollars are spent (wasted, imo) every year, conditioning what American voters think.

Blue society members think Blue; Red society members think Red.

Purple Society members think, "Oh for fucks sake... :roll: ".

Currently, individuals living in the United States of America desperately require Unity (as do all human beings living on this Planet right now).

It isn't just that the system they (/we) are using to try to deliver Unity is so hopelessly out-of-date (though that it certainly is!); it is that they are trying to fit at least two individuals into a single seat.

You can't find functional (much-less enduring) Unity in a single candidate.

I would have thought that was logically and immediately obvious to everyone.

If you, as a self-defined "Leader" of your society, seek Unity with another society, then you must demonstrate Unity with a self-defined "Leader" of *THAT* society.

The results of Tuesday's elections in America were exactly what I had anticipated; because, well, why would we *NOT* have seen the results we did?

Sucks for Kamala Harris, of course, and for every other member of the Blue and Purple societies (two-thirds of U.S. citizens), who now have to endure up to four more years of a Trump Administration. (Though I am *REALLY* hoping their misery will be somewhat mitigated by a custodial sentence for Trump on November 26th. 8-) )

But there it is, "Democracy Manifest!", as the Great Man said.

A True and accurate reflection of the current condition of the American polity (and most Western polities).

The considerable challenge before *ALL* Americans now, is to firstly try and conceive of a system of government where more than a single person sits behind the Resolute Desk; and then to attempt to elevate representatives from among their own societies, who just might be able to work with their counter-parts in the other societies that form part of their broader "American" society.

I do feel at this stage that it is unlikely that Americans will meet this challenge within the next four years, and by then, I suspect it will be too late. However, American society does have a good record on Delivery, when and where it has been able to focus itself collectively. So who knows?

The Human World must now focus solely on achieving all of the above, within the next four years (anyone else notice we passed +1.5C yesterday?). It would be great if Americans can lead the way with a loud and clear demonstration of what is required.

But all our societies must now follow this Path, and the Time for waiting for others to lead the way is over.

So, let's all stop wasting Time and resources with this Red:Blue crap, spare some considerable thought for the poor Purple People,  and get on with the actually important Green stuff.