In Reply To #29

No-one can afford to buy them any more.

And no-one can afford to lower the sale price.

It'll take a while to ripple down to the prices you see in the Real Estate office, because of course, every seller is still going to be trying to get as much as possible for their property. Since there is a very good chance that they bought it with borrowed money, which they're going to need to pay back real quick, before the interest rates rise again (as they must).

But the Real Estate Bubble has unequivocally burst, in the sense that confidence is shattered. So speculators who previously brought property solely as an investment, will be looking to off-load those investments, now that the market has peaked, and before the value of their investment drops.

People who brought a home to live in, rather than a property to invest in, and who aren't looking to sell, can sit tight and not be too bothered by the drop in Real Estate prices.

That is, of course, provided they didn't re-mortgage their own homes, to release the new found equity they had tied up in the property.

Unfortunately, rather too many Americans, and Brits, have been doing just that during the Housing Bubble.

Without calling a single removal van, usually without stepping foot outside their own front door, people who bought property before the Bubble, were informed that they were sitting on a Gold Mine.

Because of inflated property prices, many people found that their homes were suddenly worth so much more than their current mortgage. So they were persuaded by low interest rates and apparently manageable repayment terms, to take out additional mortgages on their property.

These additional mortgages gave individuals a huge injection of cash into their lifestyles, which rarely, if ever, went into adding actual value to their property, like building extensions or other improvements.

Actually, most of the cash seems to have gone on funding lavish lifestyles, which couldn't otherwise have been afforded. Luxury holidays, and really nice cars...

Most Economists agree that consumer spending in the U.S. and U.K. over the last five years, fuelled by "Releasing Equity" from mortgaged property, has more or less single-handedly kept the Global Economy out of Recession.

Shame it couldn't last forever...

Global Economics works like a Weather System. Different factors are influencing the meteorology of Global Financial Markets and National Economies, the same way that weather is effected by what takes place on the surface of the Earth.

A Master Economist will try to develop his level of understanding and feel for all of these factors, gather as much information as he can, and try to predict which way the Wind will blow in the Economic Markets.

It's an Art; not a Science.

It will take a while for the effects of the storms in the financial markets to ripple out to all areas of the Economic System: but ripple out those effects must.

The Good News is that the further you are from the epicentre of the Storm, the less-damaging the effects become.

The Hyper-Rich right now, are contemplating losing hundreds of millions of dollars from their personal fortunes. They too have been funding lavish lifestyles, mostly of the back of the rise in their investments. Whilst they are in no danger of having to live in what you or I would describe as penury, to people used to a certain level of living, a substantial drop in that standard is just as distressing as anything felt further down the food chain.

But by the Time the effects of the Storm reach the periphery of the Economic System, its ability to do to much psychological or social damage becomes minimal. People who have neither borrowed from the System (mortgages, credit cards etc.), nor loaned to or "invested in" the System (stocks and shares, pensions etc.), can not be directly effected.

Consumer price inflation is probably the most ubiquitously felt effect of Economic crises.

Consumer price rises are usually applied fairly subtly and gently, over a period of time where the consumer can get used to it, and adjust their lifestyles and expectations accordingly. Only in the case of petrol, gas, electricity and other utility prices do we ever experience sudden price hikes or drops.

U.S. consumers have been able to absorb the tripling of gas prices over the last six years, because many of them have been living heavily on credit. The crisis situation that faces the U.S. now is that if the U.S. keeps interest rates low, the price it will have to pay for all the oil it imports will go up (as the U.S. Dollar becomes worth less).

If the Federal Reserve keeps interest rates at the rate it lowered it to this week, gas prices in the U.S. will very soon hit $10 a gallon: since the U.S. Dollar will be worth less, it will buy less oil.

But if the Fed raises interest rates to protect the value of the U.S. Dollar (and keep gas prices from sky-rocketing (can't stop them going up)); it cripples the ability of the U.S. consumer to pay for gas at its CURRENT price.

Unfortunately, this is all largely inevitable. Some of the worst social effects will be mitigated by Government intervention.

However

It will become increasingly apparent to the consumer-voters in the U.S. and U.K. that their Governments knew about this situation all along.

Economic Policies that have previously only been used to kick-start recessionary economies, have been on Full After-Burner for so long they have burnt out the whole Economy.

And it is not only that in most individual cases, our "Leaders" were personally complicit in at least irresponsibly allowing this situation to develop: it is that they STILL won't acknowledge the scale of the problem, since to do so, would require admitting responsibility.

And that is something that is too politically uncomfortable to do.

So when the politicians do finally get around to acknowledging the scale of the problem, there will be so much shit flying around, that our governments won't really be in any fit state to provide the intervention that forthcoming Economic Conditions will require.

The only thing that is still a bit of a mystery, is why the usually ferocious Citizens of the United States of America, aren't marching on Washington D.C., to lynch their Government.

Which has basically Sold Them Out.

Peace