The problem is that the U.S. Economy is caught between the Devil, and the Deep Blue Sea.

Raising the U.S. Dollar interest rate is what created the liquidity crisis that began to grip the Global Economy in August (and which has barely begun to bite yet).

With Greenspan having lowered interest rates to 1%, below the rate of inflation, he effectively created a free money supply.

People began to borrow money to invest, either in property or stocks; and in the cases of Collateralised Debt Obligations, both at the same time.

This meant that the prices of property and stocks began to rise.

But because the money supply was so cheap, people simply borrowed more to pay for the increased property and stock prices.

And here's the key:

The factor that was causing the property boom, stock market recovery and Hedge Fund/SIV growth: was the easy supply of credit.

No other factor was present or necessary.

Properties were only worth more: BECAUSE PEOPLE COULD EASILY BORROW MONEY TO PAY FOR THEM.

Job growth has been pretty stagnant; there have been no major technological revolutions; and in fact, in real terms, most people in Western Economies are now earning LESS than they were earning five or six years ago.

The only reason for the staggering growth in property prices was that people could easily borrow money to pay for the inflating property prices.

This is important to understand, since it is at the source of this now-occurring crisis.

As property prices inflated, more money was borrowed to pay for the inflated prices. By the end of the Bubble, the amount of money being borrowed was determined by the effect on property prices that easy-to-borrow money had had.

Because when the money ran out, which it has now, all of a sudden, properties worth what they were because of easy-to-borrow money, instantly became worth a value more relevant to the wages of the people who lived in them, and the strength of the Economy.

Suddenly, a property that had been worth a lot, because money could be easily borrowed to pay for it, became a property worth roughly what the kind of person who would live in it, could afford.

The collateral value of the property, against which the money had been borrowed to pay for it, suddenly evaporated.

Which meant, suddenly: a *LOT* of Bad Debt.

Somewhere in the region of trillions of U.S. dollars, in fact.

But this Bad Debt remained only potential, so long as the individual who had borrowed money to buy a price-inflated property could service their debt.

Only if these individual debtors began to default, would the absence of collateral value in the property become a problem.

Unfortunately, it was inevitable that these individuals WOULD default, because interest rates HAD to rise.

At the micro-economic scale, many individuals had been lured into credit over-extension with introductory or "special offer" interest rates. For a limited period only. As soon as this period expired, interest rates would revert to tracking the USD Base Rate.

Which inevitably had to go up.

Because a currency with a low interest rate will always lose value in a currency market with higher interest rates.

To protect the value of the U.S. Dollar, and to defend its roles as both the World's Reserve Currency, and the currency in which oil is traded internationally, the Federal Reserve HAD/HAS to put up interest rates.

But putting up interest rates creates and has created the liquidity crisis.

All of a sudden, individuals CAN'T afford to service their debts, and begin to default.

This is what (inevitably) happened in the so-called "Sub-Prime" Mortgage Market in the U.S. this summer.

However, the collapse of the "Sub-Prime" Market is but the first few pebbles and rocks that heralds the avalanche. As we move into 2008, many more respectable borrowers will find that rising interest rates will become more than even THEY can bear on their Middle Class incomes.

And so they too will default.

This can not be prevented: it can only be delayed.

The way to delay it, is to lower interest rates.

But lowering interest rates devalues the U.S. Dollar internationally; which has the potential to create a massive crisis in confidence in the U.S. dollar, and will cause other nations holding U.S. dollars in their Foreign Exchange Reserves to dump them, before they become worth less than they currently are.

And so, this week:

The Federal Reserve lowered the U.S. Dollar interest rate by a full half-point (well done Clay Moore!), to temporarily stave off the worst domestic effects of the liquidity crisis and the collapse of the Property Bubble.

And subsequently (and really: inevitably) Saudi Arabia, the World's primary oil producer and exporter, began to sever the ties between its currency, and that of the United States.

The most appropriate and responsible action for any American now, is to liquidate as many of their assets as they can, pay off as much - if not, all - of their debt as possible, and transfer their U.S. dollar holdings into foreign currency.

Or gold.

And those of us in the Rest of the World, especially the Western World, shouldn't feel smug either.

'Cos the collapse of the U.S. dollar is something that is going to hit us *ALL* hard too.

Best advice is to strap your self in: the Ride gets bumpy from here.

Peace