[quote=Slacks post_id=17858 time=1721587365 user_id=68][color=#008000]He'll have forgotten once he wakes up tomorrow and hop back onto the campaign trail.[/color][/quote]

:lol:  :lol:  :lol:

Well...

Okay, so well done Joe (or more likely Jill). He did the right thing. Whatever else happens to him in the remainder of his life, he won't have to endure it with the unsympathetic howls of derision he would have to have received if he had remained as President.

A quiet retirement in the Hamptons (or wherever he winters) while the Rest of Us get on with cleaning things up.

For the Rest of Us: it is not the case that the World has immediately become safer or more hopeful because Joe Biden has just resigned from the Presidency of the U.S.

Our Human World requires Leadership.

Our individual human societies of people with collective ideals and cultures require Leadership.

(Not dictatorship - I'll come back to that in a minute.)

Howsoever each national, ideological and religious collective defines and practices Leadership, it is abundantly clear that there are very, very few effective Leaderships in our World at the moment.

Mostly because our "leaderships" and the individuals squabbling for control of those "leadership" positions are too busy with their own power-games to bother trying to "lead" others.

To take just one obvious example that we are all familiar with: the United States of America.

Like every other human nation, the U.S. has some serious challenges it has to deal with collectively. Primarily on the domestic front: crumbling Public infrastructure; excessively poor health; narcotic addiction; and of course, poverty.

The U.S. no longer has the international credibility to behave towards the Rest of the World in the way that it did (excessively so) for the two decades that followed the collapse of the Soviet Union. And even if it did, it can no longer afford to fund such ambitious "democracy spreading [sic]" crusades around the World.

But keeping things focussed on the U.S.' domestic challenges, I would say the absolute *TOP* Priority of whichever candidates are elected to the positions of authority and governance in the U.S., is to heal the absolutely diabolical division that is endemic to U.S. Culture.

*SO* much time, energy and lives are being needlessly wasted in the U.S., because all of the Political Energy goes into bickering with and attacking the "Opposition".

There is no Opposition.

Republicans and Democrats both share the same Purpose: to Make (or Keep) America Great Again.

However, there are different ideas around how to go about doing that. And those differences have been purposefully, irresponsibly and (it seems) terminally exacerbated by the two "different sides", to the point where the United States of America no longer has a functioning democratic system.

Key point here being that the candidates of governmental office (have to) devote almost all of their available time to battling their "opposition", and in doing so, they neglect the responsibilities of their offices and continue to metastasize an already dreadfully toxic political environment.

It can be highly entertaining to watch (and The OP would be a lot quieter than it is, if we couldn't watch!  8-) ). But as we snigger and guffaw at the Old Man, the Man-Child, and now I guess, the Wo-Man, we must not forget that whilst we are all enjoying the Political Tragedy unfurling before our eyes, and in our Lives...

Our Human World is going to rack and ruin.

Because we are more concerned with the gladiatorial spectacle of unbridled egotists fighting each other, than with saving our own societies, nations and World.

This situation and its dynamics are most abundantly manifest in the national society that is (currently) the United States of America, but the same is happening in just about every other national society in the Human World.

Before I forget, I'll just quickly deal with Dictatorship.

It has been tried. Extensively. Throughout Human History, and to an inhumanly genocidal extent in the 20th Century.

It has never worked.

It can not work.

Using violence to coerce another human being to do something they do not want to do is an unsustainable basis for stable and consistent authority.

The Historical Evidence for that is abundant, recent and on-going.

Forget the "morality" of it all and focus on the stated Purpose: "To Make [insert Self/Nation/Religion &c.] Great Again".

Attempting to fulfil that purpose by incarcerating and/or executing those who you are not convinced believe exactly as you do, is an expensive, time-consuming and ultimately futile activity.

The *ONLY* guarantee is that you will increase resistance to your ambitions for ideological uniformity.

But like I said, that is not a moral or "Holy" assertion: it is the conclusion I have reached having understood as much about Human History as I do.

Dictatorships of any form can never sustain effective governorship.

Human History has proven that.

So absent the possibility of a jack-booted, implausibly-charismatic Autocrat rising to the top of a pile of bodies and ordering us all to do *EXACTLY* as we are told, how else can we proceed?

With a Shared Purpose.

A Shared Purpose nurtures and orchestrates collected human activities and outputs without obstructing or impeding autonomy.

Everyone that chooses to engage with the Shared Purpose will make their own value contribution in their own way, as only they know how best to do.

The only Output Specification for their Value Contribution will be: "Does It Serve Our Purpose?"

If an individual no longer wishes to serve a particular Shared Purpose, they are completely Free to pursue their own Purpose. (And I like to Believe that such other Purposes will heavily focus on the Creative Arts, such as Music, Painting and Literature.)

But for those who continue to Choose to serve the same Shared Purpose as others, they will have complete autonomy to deliver their Value Contribution.

And that does kind of negate the need for intermediaries such as governments, managers and agents.

It also requires a Purpose.

And in this particular situation, that Purpose really needs to be something that as many Human Beings as possible can support.

Save the Planet.

Three words (it is good idea to keep Shared Purpose definitions brief...).

Subtitle will be something along the lines of:

[i]"Create a Human World that exists in sustainable and safe Harmony with the Natural World."[/i]

That'll do it.

Every Human individual and collective can freely choose to support that Purpose, with zero sanction for choosing not to.

(Frankly, I think it will only need about 10% of Human Beings to support that Purpose and we can probably manage it.  8-) )

It is not an ideological, political, religious or economic Purpose; just a straightforward practical Purpose, with obvious benefits for all.

We Humans *HAVE* to be thinking Practically these days.

I am glad that Joe Biden and the people close to him have deferred to that understanding.

:)