In Reply To #41

Of course representative government is "by the people for the people".  I don't believe "government" should be considered a "higher authority".  The key difference is that I want as little government in my life as humanly possible.

I think where we're at crossed-purpose is your floating definition of Government.

If you accept that government is the People, then you are saying you want as little of other people in your life. And you'd get no argument from me there.

However, when you say you "want as little government in [your] life", I think you mean you want the least amount of government bureaucracy and probably legislation as well in your life. Again, no argument from me there.

I think it's just that you are oscillating between the CONCEPT of representative government within Society; and the specific manifestation of the governmental systems that are in practice today.

Any man-made organization (Government, Church, Unions, Academia) becomes corrupt, bloated and inneficient.  It's just the nature of Man.  Of all man-made organizations today, Government has the most coercive power to affect the lives of humans on the planet.

I agree completely, hence my opposition to government-sponsored and promoted military conflict.

How does your acknowledgement of Government as "the most coercive power to affect the lives of humans on the planet" sit with your support for the Bush Administration's military adventures in the Middle East?

As a Conservative (with a Libertarian streak) - I want as little government in my life as possible with the exception of Local government providing a limited safety-net for the disadvantaged.

But as an ardent supporter of the Bush Administration's militarism, isn't that statement at odds with your support for military interventionism?

Or is it just that you don't want your government interfering in YOUR life? But you're happy for your government to interfere/intervene in others' lives?

I guess it is a value thing - something that you seem to think is antiquated in an "Enlightened" 21st Century world.

Not so much antiquated, as redundant and discredited.

Peace

Redundant?  How so?  Who or what set the "values" of the UK?  Is there some sort of universal values that the planet has agreed upon?  Why is female circumcision and the Burqua not a value of the West but a value of the Muslim World?  I am not making a judgement on that example, but merely pointing out that the planet still has a far way to go before accepting universal values.

No, what I meant was the whole concept of trying to apply values is redundant and discredited.

What you have illustrated, albeit I'm sure inadvertently, is that try as we might, we simply can't come up with a universally comprehensive set of values.

You can insist that your values are paramount when they come into conflict with another's, but what is it that makes your values better than theirs? On what are your values based? Religion? Morality? Ethics?

The problem is that values based on these ideas are frequently conflicting, and entirely subjective.

The wearing of the burqa seems reprehensible to us in the more sophisticated West, but we also favour free expression. We also believe in the value of self-determination. Is it better that Muslim communities are forced to end the practice so that we in the West don't feel so unsettled at the sight of them? Or is it better that those Muslim communities continue to decide issues of dress and conduct for their selves?

It's a tricky one, isn't it?

But what about basic decency and human values? Surely everyone agrees that murder is a practice that must be eliminated from all Civilisation?

Well, that's just as tricky. It seems that murder is alright, so long as you've got a good reason for it.

It is okay to murder genocidal dictators, and the people that fight for them, because we know that they are bad people. Unfortunately though, those whom we may consider "bad" are considered by others to be "good"; and those we consider "good", are considered by others to be bad?

So who or what gets the final say?

Is it or should it be the Law? Well, that's one solution, but even the Law can be set aside with a good enough reason. Apparently.

So we're stuck with a redundant and discredited system of defining "Justice", based on subjective value judgements.

The only basis for a social system that can work is practicality, not subjective expedience.

If we want to see an end to murder, practically the only way we can do that is to declare that murder is NEVER permissible. That means universally outlawing the death penalty, and universally outlawing militarism. Making it so that there simply are no exceptions, no "good" reasons, and no "justifiable" exceptions.

It isn't an ideal way to go about it, because there are people whose personal values are going to be offended by the fact that they can't exact fatal vengeance on those who offended them. But it's the only practical way I can see.

Peace