[quote=squirrelhunter][color=green]I'd say given the fact that it's highly addictive, fucks up your reward/pleasure receptors of your brain, and that it's dirt fuckin cheap, I'd call it a problem.

This isn't some stupid little natural substance drug where I may agree that the whole war on drugs thing is quite stupid/retarded.  But meth needs to be squashed out of existence, period.  Part of the reason it's becoming so popular is it's relatively easy to make, fairly cheap, and the length of the high lasts so much longer than anything else out there.

I read the rest of your reply and with respect to meth, I'm sorry but I reject your argument because I view the drug as simply being THAT bad.  If anything should be illegal and harshly punished, it's meth.[/color][/quote]

Right.

But methamphetamine is:

"...relatively easy to make, fairly cheap, and the length of the high lasts so much longer than anything else out there."

So trying to "squash it out of existence", keep it "illegal and harshly punished", is an exercise in futility.

My position isn't that prohibition is morally inappropriate; but that it is practically impossible, and causes more problems than it solves.

As it goes, nicotine is at least as addictive as meth or heroin; it kills innumerably more people every year, in slow, lingering deaths; and through secondary smoke, has a greater incidental impact on Society.

Yet no-one suggests banning it outright, because that would be clearly and practically impossible.

You can get as outraged about methamphetamine as your above post suggests you already are, if you want. The fact is, it is already illegal, and given conditions inside most prisons, is already harshly punished.

So what's your point? "It didn't ought to be allowed!!!"?

It isn't.

But that doesn't seem to be stopping those chasing the "...length of the high [that] lasts so much longer than anything else out there."

Now does it?

Furthermore, in addition to the illegality of meth not stopping people using it; the prohibition of the substance forces users to turn to crime to fund their habit, and supports a massive and insidious Black Market controlled by violent and organised criminals.

Because the methamphetamine high is at least as intense as you describe, it has proved - and will always be - completely impossible to get between a user and their fix: you might as well try and stop the Earth rotating.

The methamphetamine issue, and the same issue with all potent narcotics, can not be swept under the carpets: again, not because it is morally inappropriate to do so; but because it is practically impossible.

The problem is not with the specific drug; it is with the nature of the relationship between dysfunctional people, and the Society they are supposed to be a part of.

Methamphetamine users are [b]*ALREADY*[/b] punishing themselves harshly. The prospect of being incarcerated in an institution where in all likelihood, they'll have easier access to their drug of choice, is meaningless to a meth user. They are single-minded in their addiction, even as it destroys them.

And again: this is no different to nicotine; it's just that the whole process plays itself out much more rapidly.

And unlike nicotine addicts, meth addicts can not turn to the medical profession for help.

Peace