[quote=ThriceTPF60854658][color=green]Shit I disagree with Holyman on something.[/color][/quote]

No you don't, Goddammit!!!

WTF are you talking about!?! Are you thick or something? Why the hell are you saying we disagree..!?!

Hee-hee! :)

Sorry to disappoint Thrice, but I really don't think we [b]*ARE*[/b] in disagreement on this.

[quote=ThriceTPF60854658][color=green]Lets start here. Have you ever done any hard drugs like meth of heroin?[/color][/quote]

Oooh yeah!

Do you want to read my Space Cadet's CV? Right then:

I began my chemically-induced Astral Travels at an early age; age 13 in fact, when I discovered the thrills and spills of solvent abuse.

I actually only ever sniffed glue on a couple of occasions; my intoxicant of choice was the more upmarket aerosol high. Deodorant, hair-spray, air-fresheners, that sort of thing; it was the butane propellant that I was getting high off; but it was less risky than stocking up on pure butane cylinders. Petrol was another firm favourite, since that was easy enough to get hold of; as was typist's correction fluid thinner.

Yup, from age 13 to 17, I was regularly launching myself away from this reality, usually on solo trips, but occasionally with fellow travellers...

And it was through this habit that I ultimately met my doom, at age 17, when after a week or so of concentrated hairspray binging, I finally popped my clogs and died from asphyxiation.

However, as luck would have it, it turns out that Life is an Illusion, and Death merely a transition from our illusory, egoic state, back to our Eternal, Spiritual Existence. And as I returned to the Unconditionally Loving Embrace of the All That Is, I, like everyone who "dies", was given the opportunity to return to Life and continue as though I hadn't just starved my body of oxygen. I remember distinctly feeling what a terrible experience my "death" would create for my mother, who had already suffered terribly when my older brother had died in a tragic accident, ten years earlier.

So I decided to make it just a [b]*NEAR*[/b]-Death Experience, rather than the full blown dénouement to my brief and trippy Life.

Now I'd love to say that having returned to full vitality, I knocked the whole solvent abuse thing on the head, but I did actually continue for a little while longer. Unfortunately though, my NDE had completely dwarfed any previous trip I'd had, in terms of positivity and wonderment; and the trips I could get out of an aerosol or petrol can, just didn't ring my bell anymore.

Not to worry though, a couple of years before my NDE, I'd discovered the delights of cannabis, and that helped me through my final withdrawal from solvents and the like. I became a firm and happy smoker, and was fortunate enough to have parents who felt that if my friends and I were going to smoke dope, they'd rather I did it in the safety of my own bedroom, rather than out on the streets where I could get in trouble with the Law. My father particularly was very supportive about the aerosol/petrol phase, showing me Love and understanding, rather than Fear and disappointment - though he had never in his life imbibed anything more intoxicating that a pint of lager with a dash of lime cordial in it.

Anyhoo, I held steady on cannabis for the next few years, until I split up with my childhood sweetheart, when I was 24. Then I moved into a great flat in Chelsea, Central London, a move which coincided with me getting my first work as a freelancer in IT, in the City of London, with the pay-packet that came with that... And then it was PARTY-TIME!!! :)

First up was "Speed", your basic common or garden amphetamine.

Now if there is such a thing as a "Gateway Drug", it isn't marijuana: it's amphetamine. You're generally snorting it, for starters, and that's a big threshold to cross for people who previously only smoked burning drugs. And "Speed" is basically "Cocaine for Beginners". It's also ridiculously cheap.

I moved quite uh, speedily (:)) on to "Base Speed" - which is the raw, uncut version. But before too long, the only purpose that it was serving, was as a foundation layer for unlimited amounts of alcohol and marijuana, and later, whatever else I happened to have got my grubby mitts on.

Next up then was LCD. And after an initial bumpy introduction, Acid remained my favourite drug for a long time, not least because of the similarities between Acid trips, and the trips I'd experienced in my aerosol-sniffing days. I usually found that after the initial Acid surge, thing settled down, and I could mix it more or less easily, with a regular existence doing my job. I even took my motorcycle driving license test whilst tripping - and passed! :)

Now I remember the day I first took Ecstasy as though it were yesterday. :) (<<<Probably the first time I've used a "Smiley Face" in its proper context... ;))

(I've long maintained that it's the first blast on any drug that keeps you going back for more. In most cases, the first experience has the biggest and most positive impact; and every subsequent hit is an attempt to recapture those first feelings.)

The really good thing about Ecstasy is the enormously positive vibe in creates in the user. You can dance all night long, without getting bored; and then go home for some seriously sensual sex. And unlike speed, coke and acid, your cock can actually cash the cheques that your fantasy-fuelled mind is writing for it.

So far so good then. I'm built pretty big, and have always had an excellent tolerance for intoxicating substances, and for a good couple of years or so, my weekends usually consisted of a mixture of: speed; ecstasy; acid; and marijuana; (and alcohol as a sort of background noise).

And during that time, I also played around with a number of different types of drugs, and different methods of getting them into my system.

I've never injected anything into myself though. I've smoked, swallowed, snorted and drunk all manner of drugs and drug cocktails, usually in quantities that should drop an elephant; but the idea of fucking around with needles whilst intoxicated, just rang all sorts of alarm bells. As far as Heroin goes, I've smoked it ("Chased the Dragon") off foil, and loaded joints up with it, but fucked if I was ever going inject in. But Heroin never really did it for me. I appreciated the dreaminess of it all; that soft-focus, spongy, care-free Flight of Fancy; but I think at the time, I was more into social activity and ability, all of which were muted or prevented by Heroin use.

I've smoked pure opium, through a proper Chinese pipe, and I think that appealed more to my personal affectations; but to be honest, I just didn't have anything in my Life that I wanted to be that insulated from.

As best as I can tell, Cocaine is at the opposite end of a spectrum that has Heroin at the other; and whilst I've done shit-loads of Coke (and continue to have a snort or five whenever it's about), it's never really struck me as a point-ful drug.

A lot of people say it makes them feel like God - but I'm not in need of any assistance on that front; and clearly it helps a lot of people cope with social situations they would otherwise struggle with. But for the most part, it just makes me incredibly horny, but with almost zero chance of getting enough blood pressure in my cock to do anything about that horniness. Like I say, I'll still snort a few lines of coke if it's kicking around, but I've always had a fairly lukewarm appreciation of that particular drug.

Now then: Mushrooms. :)

Well, I wrote a big piece about how to enjoy magic mushrooms, at the beginning of the year, in a thread that LonelyJew created; so I won't go back over too much: suffice to say that Mushrooms are God's Drugs.

They are, for the most part, free; it is impossible to overdose; and generally speaking, demand that people take them sparingly. Unlike other drugs, people don't rush to take more mushrooms after they've come down from a trip. I think this is because of the power and nature of mushroom trips, and the insight they give an individual, if taken with the proper ceremony.

I would never take mushrooms just for the sake of taking them - just to get high. I take mushrooms when I'm ready for a further elevation of my consciousness; or for further insight into the Human Condition. But since each trip's insights can take several years to make full sense of; my mushroom journeys are pretty, uh, spaced out. :)

Nowadays then, well, Holywoman is with child, so there's not even any cigarette smoking going on at home at the moment. I've got a work-related road-trip to do next weekend, for a few days, and I'll probably take some weed with me on that; but otherwise, I'm completely detoxified at the moment.

But to be honest, I think I've been there and gotten most of the T-shirts that are on offer, at least the one's that interest me anyway; so it's unlikely that I'll be going back to anything other than marijuana, and the occasional toot of coke, any time soon.

Anyhoo Thrice, that's my Space Cadet CV. :)

As for why "most people" use whatever kinds of drugs... Well, in all my travels, I never found the key to understanding that.

I know that in my case, my aerosol and the petrol abuse was all about escaping from what I considered a pretty mundane and hum-drum existence. I'm not saying my Life was unhappy, or without Love: after my older brother died, I couldn't have wished for more Loving, caring, open and supportive parents. No, it's just that Life seemed a bit dull and Lightless to me; all a bit routine, lacking in imagination and the fantastical.

And all of the above was all just a way of bringing a bit of what I'd experienced during my NDE, into my Waking Life.

I suspect that's much the same for Everyone, but I don't know that for certain; and it's a pretty broad motivation anyway.

I know I was and am lucky to have a lot of Love, and a lot of Lovely people in my Life; and I think that's always kept me anchored to this Reality...

...Even when I was putting enough "Rocket Fuel" in my mental cylinders to launch me clear out of the Solar System. :)

Peace