DS888: "I would just like to thank you for your response to my post (#105) I could not find room to put this in my last post as it did not seem to fit. I just wanted to say that it was a very informative read."

H: No problem. It's always a pleasure to answer an interested and open enquiry. :)

And I felt I owed you something, to make up for not replying earlier and thanking you for your message of support earlier in the week (sorry 'bout that :s). As I wrote to EF this morning, I was starting to think that everyone else had lost interest (as usual), so I can tell you that your message of support, and the others I received, were definitely most welcome, and directly affected how I was behaving myself in the thread. :)

DS888: I have wondered for the longest time why politicians would cease to continue down an obviously wrong path, but your explanation of how an admittance of guilt would be political suicide, really made all the sense in the world. I would also like to thank you for explaining Evilfish, as I have never completely understood his need to attack those who disagree with him. To think that it is fear that drives his rants really makes me pity him.

H: Ah, yes, it is a pity, and a shame.

It may not look or read like it, but I *AM* or am TRYING to give him something he's clearly not had a lot of before: a bit of Love and Attention. :)

It IS Fear that haunts the many people like EvilFish, most visibly in the United States, but no different pretty much anywhere else in the World. And Love is the only antidote I know to Fear: it is much easier to be with one's Fears, if one is with those one Loves.

I make sense of things, so that EF and his like don't have to. :)

Unfortunately, their minds and emotions have been so terrified and twisted by the Fears of their parents and governments, that it doesn't and wouldn't even occur to them that there is or might be another way of looking at things.

This inability to see things, the Right-Way-Up (for want of a better phrase), actually compounds itself: being so afraid, they look at things in a certain way (the way they are TOLD to); and looking at things the way they do, increases their Fear, makes them more afraid.

Inevitably, they turn to the person or group of people that frightens them most, and try to ingratiate their selves with that person or group (President or Government; God or Church etc.). Their reasoning being, that in a frightening World, the best chance of self-preservation is to "side" with the Most Fearsome People.

At the very least, they will be very low down the List of priorities, when *TOTAL DOMINATION* is achieved by the group or Party they have allied themselves to; when the *REALLY* frightening stuff starts.

Unfortunately, We have seen this behaviour too many times before, and We know that too often, it is actually the weak and frightened "allies" of the Powerful who are first targeted.

Hitler turned on the Brownshirts who assured his rise to Power and Dictatorship; mostly because the Brownshirts knew where most of the bodies were buried, and if their demands for a slice of the Power cake weren't met, they threatened to expose Hitler.

It may seem a bit of a leap to go from the Nazi S.A. to the likes of EvilFitch, but actually, the United States is the most militarised Society in the Developed World. One of the primary effects of US firearms legislation, is that the entire American population can be turned overnight into a militia.

Because of that function, it would not be a difficult task for Dick Cheney and his Praetorian Guard to militarise his supporters, in opposition to threats to his power.

Another terrorist strike on mainland America, anywhere near the magnitude (or of course greater) than 9/11, will immediately result in the imposition of martial law throughout the entire country.

Since both regular troops and reserve troops are bogged down in Iraq, this would permit Cheney the facility to lower substantially the entry and training requirements of new recruits. The sense of Fear and suspicion within the United States would be raised to McCarthy levels, and people like EvilFitch would suddenly find that they qualified to answer the "Call to Arms".

Of course, in the interim, it would also provide the excuse for a rapid (but limited) withdrawal from Iraq, which could then also be blamed on the "Opposition". And returning troops would come home to a Nation under Martial Law.

That is what *COULD* happen; but I really don't think it will. I *REALLY* don't think it will - nothing like it in fact.

But the point of that fairy-tale/horror-story, is to illustrate the path that people like EF are on.

It is eloquently clear in their prose, especially their obsession with the "New Hitler" and the "Next Nazis".

What they HAVE to forget (if they ever concerned themselves with it in the first place...), is that Hitler came to rise in one of the most Industrialised and "Civilised" Nations on the Planet.

Socially and Culturally, the Germans were (as they are now), anyone else's equal - ESPECIALLY when it came to Industry. Same thing in Imperial Japan.

Hitler's rise to power was insidious; it was slow; it wasn't *NOTICED* by anyone else, until it was *TOO LATE*. It took Hitler a good fifteen years or so, to rise from an ex-political prisoner, to Total Dictator of Germany. Hitler did NOT come riding in out of the Eastern Desert, like some cartoon Arab villain.

Hitler did not stand there saying: Look at Me! Look at Me! I'm a Threat! I'm a Threat!

As far as arguing goes, I can now understand why you do it however I doubt I will take that path myself. I'd be more than willing to communicate or even debate my beliefs with others, but to constantly have them jumped on and assaulted by the likes of Evilfish, and then having to defend them as well, well it just gets tiresome. Anyway, I wish you the best of luck and hope that you can continue to enlighten others with your posts.