In Reply To #54

In Reply To #46

Your overall conclusion is correct (Depresion) but your solution is wrong and how you got there needs work.

Fair enough.

How about I work on my Economic Analysis, whilst you work on not being a condescending prick? You know you can do it if you try! If we both start now, we should get there at more or less the same time, wouldn't you say? :)

At the macro-economic level, the United States is more or less owned by the People's Republic of China.

Just last week, the PRC responded to a ham-fisted attempt by the USG to coerce it into revaluing the Chinese currency - the Yuan - by threatening to bankrupt the United States, by dumping the PRC's dollar reserves.

A few points here.

First the Chinese do not own the United States any more than European Nations and Japan own the United States because they hold large reserves of Federal Notes and American debts.

Well, I did say "more or less owned"... Not actually owned...

But let's be clear: the US Dollar, like all currencies, is traded and held as a commodity in international exchanges.

If the holders of those USD commodities sell them, rather than buy more, then the value of the USD will decline.

If China, as one of the biggest holders of USD's, sells off its nearly US$1trillion, then that will and must precipitate a massive decline in the value of the Dollar.

And if the value of the USD as a tradable commodity goes in to steep decline, why would other holders of that commodity hold onto it as it goes into decline? Why hold on to an asset that is depreciating rapidly?

As a fiat currency, the USD is like any other tradable stock or share: its value depends on the confidence investors have in its performance; as that confidence disappears, so does its value; as its value depreciates, so too does confidence in it.

And we come back to the same question: why would anyone hold on to an asset or commodity that is depreciating in value?

These nations that buy American debt rely on American debt and American consumers.  The Chinese economy is not a "miracle" but a lot corruption, fudged numbers, and eager consumers around the world (with the bigget chunk in the USA) spending money they have not yet earned to buy things they do not need.

I did explain this in my previous post, but perhaps it got lost in the fog...

The Chinese "economic miracle" is not based as much on trade (and the balance of trade), as it is on off-shoring.

For the last decade, American corporations have been shifting their manufacturing and service operations to China, were labour is cheaper, and the cost of doing business is much lower - because of less stringent regulation, and, uh, corruption...

The goods being made in China that are brought in American stores, are not Chinese goods: they are American goods, that just happen to be made in China.

They are not imported, in the sense that they would be if they were made and sold by Chinese corporations. They are simply manufactured in China, by American corporations, who then transport the goods to America, where they are sold under American brand names.

The massive loss in value that would occur once China dumped their reserves of US bills would cause a few interesting consequences.

First, the Chinese would no longer be able to keep their own currency artificially low and would have to float their currency.  Secondly, they may own $1 trillion (for argument's sake) in American debt but they will not collect $1 trillion if they try to do a massive sell off all at once (for what should be obvious reasons).

You even mentioned this when you said:

But it isn't in China's ideal interest to dump its dollar reserves. Since the Chinese currency is pegged against the USD, a fall in the value of the USD would mean a fall in value of the Chinese Yuan. More practically, the bankruptcy of the United States would mean the bankruptcy of China's primary trade market.

So already we have to consequences that will KILL the Chinese economy and remove money from a lot of already disgruntled Chinese workers.

There are more reasons to tack on to this but you can see why the Chinese did not follow through on their threat:  it would hurt the United States but it will KILL China economically.

Ah, no, 'fraid you've got it back to front EF.

The reason that the Chinese can keep their currency at whatever level they like, is because unlike the US and most other currencies, the Chinese do not allow their currency to be traded or held abroad.

Since no other country holds Chinese currency in their foreign reserves, the value of the Chinese currency is and can be set artificially by the PRC Central Bank. This was, after all, the reason why the US recently threatened the Chinese with economic sanctions, if they didn't revalue the Yuan.

And the Chinese didn't respond to the US threat with a threat of their own; they merely explained that the US was in no position to threaten it, since the Chinese could precipitate a MASSIVE decline in the value of the USD, by dumping its substantial dollar reserves.

The loss (or bankruptcy) of the American market, and a substantial fall in the value of the USD would not kill the Chinese economy, it would merely retard it.

Slightly.

China's stupendous 9% rate of economic growth (stupendous for a country of its size) is not solely dependent upon the United States. In 2006, the US accounted for only 21% of China's exports. The EU accounted for 18%, Hong Kong 17%, and Japan 12.4%.

As I explained above, many of the goods transported from China to the US do not count as exports, since they are American branded and owned goods, manufactured in China, for sale in the US. But even taking into account the 75% of Wal-Mart goods (and many other American brand-name goods) that are made in China, the robust and relentlessly expanding Chinese Economy (China is due to overtake Germany next year as the 3rd largest economy in the World) could take the loss of the US market without pause or concern.

But like, uh, *I* said, the Chinese wouldn't rush to bankrupt the US Economy, since that wouldn't make good business sense. But if the US continues to threaten the Chinese Economy with sanctions, what else WOULD the PRC do?

However, as a result of the massive off-shoring to China of the majority of US manufacturing and business base, China doesn't have to sell its own goods to America to still have a market. American companies making goods for Americans, make them in China. So long as Americans need to buy the kinds of things they buy in Wal-Mart and many other retail outlets in the US, American consumers will continue to spend their money, essentially, in China: no exchange rate problems to worry about.

A few things here:

China cannot just pick up 300 million customers who can and will buy cheap, piss-poor quality shit they do not need.  There is not a block of 300 million people China could sell to but does not because the Americans buy it in a matter of days or weeks.

Hah!

Sorry EF, but you couldn't be more wrong. :)

In case you weren't aware, the population of China is some One and a Half Billion People.

Now previously, the majority of those people could not afford to buy the goods or lifestyles that Americans enjoyed. But because of the rate of expansion of the Chinese Economy, that is all changing.

In 1981, the poverty rate in China was 53%; by 2001, it had dropped to 8%. According to the CIA World Factbook, in 2007, the percentage of people living below the poverty line in China is 10%. For comparison, and using the same source, the percentage of people living below the poverty line in the United States, is 12%.

So your elusive block of 300 million consumers can be, and already has been replaced by China's domestic markets. Consider also the fact that unlike the United States, China is completely self-sufficient, with a massive trade surplus, and you must concede that whilst the US market is beneficial to the Chinese (and not to be sniffed at), it is by no means essential to future Chinese prosperity.

China sells cheap shit.  China sells cheap shit made and produced using Chinese slave labor and the intellectual property of other nations.  What technological breakthroughs they have made have come through theft or purchase (see the Chinese auto industry rankings in Germany for a good example and poison toothpaste for others).

I fear that you are allowing racial stereotyping to get in the way of your understanding, EF.

The outcome of all this is that if the USG sanctions or even keeps threatening to sanction the PRC, China will simply do what it has explained it will do, and dump its US dollar holdings.

This would cause most other Central Banks to do likewise.

This would cause the US dollar to lose its role as the World's reserve currency.

This would cause the end of the monopoly the US dollar currently holds on the international oil market.

This would cause the 50% of the US's oil consumption that it must import, to become completely unaffordable to the United States.

This would cause massive social and political upheaval in the United States, as the entire National Economy goes bust, in the same way that the economies of the former Soviet Union, and Japan, went bust in the early 1990's.

That is the macro-economic outlook for the USD.

A few problems here.

For starters you are looking at a GLOBAL DEPRESSION so you got that part right.

The rest of the world relies on both the United States and the Dollar.  Whether they want to admit that is irrelevant; economics does not exist in a vacuum and cause and effect are key here.

What you missed, left out, or got wrong:

-Oil is still bought with the dollar and the many Sheiks and Oil Barons around the world (the USA gets more oil from Canada, S.A. and Africa than the M.E. but that is irrelevant since it is sold on the world market) have their own reserves in petro-dollars.

Sorry EF, but I think I was quite clear on the fact that the USD would lose its monopoly as the trading currency for the international oil market.

As you acknowledged, the US dollar is backed by nothing more than confidence. As that confidence erodes, so too does the value of the USD. Once it becomes clear that the USD is going in to steep decline, why would holders of the USD hold on to a rapidly depreciating asset? And why would oil exporters continue to sell oil in dollars, when they could get more value from selling it in another currency or currencies?

-When people start "dumping the dollar" they lost A LOT OF MONEY.  These nations will not get a 1 - 1 return on their holdings.  They will lose A LOT of money.

No.

When people start "dumping the dollar", they will lose SOME money (value): but only because they will be selling those dollars for less than they paid for them.

But if they hold on to dollars, as the USD goes into steep decline, they will lose EVEN MORE money/value, by simply holding on to a depreciating asset, without selling or "dumping" anything.

When a share or stock goes into decline, the idea is to sell it before you lose too much money. It is no different on the foreign currency exchanges. Why wait for your foreign currency to decline any further, before you sell it?

Would you wait until it was completely worthless before trying to sell it?

What is looming on the horizon is not a period of recession, but a full-blown Global Economic Depression.

Correct.

It's a shame I didn't have anything to add to the part of your post that preceded the above statement EF, because you DID manage to NOT sound like a condescending prick... Yay! :)

If we weren't in almost complete agreement on the state of the US (and UK) housing markets, my responses would have highlighted your much more reasonable sounding prose... ;-)

I know you went on to pick up on my comment about the end of Capitalism, in a similar vein, but I'd like to pick that up in response to Foota's comments.

I liked this apposite comment though:

Even the forest needs to burn in order to grow.

Yes indeed. :)

In Reply To #51

In Reply To #46

And I believe that the social and political effects of that Depression, could very well herald the final bankruptcy of the ideology of Capitalism.

Something that I would say is as overdue as it is a vital necessity for the survival of Humanity.

Not saying that I disagree with all of your analysis, but I think you are a bit hyperbolic at the end here.

Yes...

I should have put it under a separate heading.

The preceding analysis was based on observation, and as strong a dose of objectivity as I could manage.

My comment about the "End of Capitalism" was/is entirely hyperbole, based on my beliefs, rather than any objective assessment... :)

Exactly what economic system are you suggesting we have to save humanity?

Right, first things first then - and in acknowledgment of EF's comments...

I am *NOT* suggesting that Communism or Socialism are adequate or appropriate alternatives to Capitalism.

Though I realise you are want to take a monochromatic view of the World, and the Ideas in it, I hope you're not under the impression that I'm so lacking in imagination that I think that Socialism and/or Communism are the only (and binary) alternatives to Capitalism.

The problem with Socialism and Marx' Communism, is that they're not really Economic systems, as much as they are social and political systems. Poor old Karl, uh, laboured under the mistaken impression that Everyone felt as kindly towards the labouring classes as he did. He didn't consider for a minute that centralising all that economic, social and political power in the hands of a minority central committee, would corrupt the minds and morals of those individuals in the politburos.

The reason why Capitalism has been MUCH more successful than Communism and Socialism is that it did not systematically entrench economic and political power in the hands of a few anointed individuals: compared to the Soviet and (formerly) Chinese Command Economies, Capitalist Economies HAVE BEEN much more free and equitable.

However, Capitalism IS just an ideology - just a collection of ideas. And when that ideology was systemised and applied, like any other applied ideology, it became susceptible to its own inherent flaws.

Capitalism as a system has two major flaws.

Being nigh on 300 years old, Capitalism was designed for a World - a Planet - that seemed SO much bigger than it does now. In the 18th Century, new natural resources, manufacturing techniques, and markets were being discovered, created and opened all the Time.

Capitalism's first major flaw, is that as a system, it was and continues to be based on the idea of Infinite Supply. As we are slowly (too slowly?) realising now, an Economic system that is not based on the principle of sustainability (sustainable resources and environment), is not, uh, sustainable...

The second, and arguably greater flaw with Capitalism, is the way in which it centralises and concentrates Capital.

The ideal of Capitalism is that anyone with a bright idea - an invention, or a better way of doing things - can be successful in the Capitalist System. Unfortunately, as we are discovering, the success of all but the very best ideas depends not on its sheer inventiveness or efficiency, but on how well it can be marketed and sold. In other words: how well it can compete in the market place.

And marketing something successfully and competing in a Capitalist market requires, uh, capital.

And instead of a profusion of different vendors, and a myriad of Choice; what we are actually witnessing, is a concentration of capital in the hands of a few Mega-Corporations.

Simply, if anyone comes up with a better idea than the Mega-Corps, then those hyper-wealthy corporations BUY OUT/UP the offending (better) article/operation.

Through relentless acquisition and merger, rather than "The Market" being populated by many and varied suppliers; it has become dominated by a handful of dominating corporations.

Simply, the more money that you have in a Capitalist Economy: the easier it becomes for you to accumulate even more.

Nowhere better is this fundamental flaw in Capitalism better exhibited than in the Computer Software industry, where a handful of major publishing houses dominate the market, providing appallingly impersonal service to their customers, and stifling creativity and choice.

Now, throw in a lot of other relatively (in comparison) minor flaws in Capitalism, like commodity bubbles and the "Boom-Bust" cycles of markets, and it becomes clear that whilst considerably superior to Communism, Capitalism is NOT the "Perfect Economic System" it is cracked up to be.

I think that the new system (or systems) that will emerge to take the place of Capitalism won't be so much a straight replacement, as they will be an Evolution of Capitalism.

Capitalism is a fine basis for the management of an Economy, but it is too single-minded in its obsession with pure wealth.

I think that what is already beginning to emerge, are complimentary and parallel systems that use the techniques of Capitalism, to manage criteria OTHER THAN just pure wealth.

So, for instance we have the idea of Carbon Trading. Regardless of the merits or necessities for carbon trading, it illustrates the realities of alternative "Bottom Lines" to just pure cash.

I am already hearing the phrase "Triple Bottom Line" being bandied around in boardrooms and the Corridors of Power. And this phrase refers to economic, environmental and social "Bottom Lines".

In other words, it isn't just about earning as much money as possible any more: it is also about appropriate environmental and social responsibilities. It is no longer socially acceptable to just drive towards the unrestrained accumulation of raw wealth. Nowadays, business leaders must account for the impact they have upon the Environment and Society.

So what I think we are beginning to see the emergence of an Economic System that isn't solely concerned with capital, and its accumulation, but one that takes a much more holistic approach to the sustainability of Human Society and its endeavours.

To the best of my knowledge, nobody has yet coined a term for this new, emerging system. But as far as I am aware, no serious business or political leader is still trying to pretend it isn't happening. :)

Now that's probably plenty to be getting on with...

I await your responses with eager anticipation. :)

Peace