[b]Part Two: Hubris[/b]

So, to recap:

As a result of the collapse of the "Dot-Com" Bubble, and the attacks of 9/11/2001, the U.S. Government and the governments of other "Developed World" nations, pressured or directed their Central Banks to set Interest Rates at Historically (and recklessly, as it turned out) low levels. This fuelled a massive expansion in credit availability to people with fragile employment prospects and stagnant wages, in an Economy that should have been in recession.

And due to the repeal of Depression-Era legislation, Financial Institutions were now able to combine their investment operations with their commercial (retail) operations.

The Story Continues...

As a result of ultra-low Central Bank interest rates, and the way in which debt obligations could be "leveraged" to act as collateral for further borrowing, by 2007, an enormous (and highly unstable and therefore unsustainable) Debt Pyramid had been rapidly constructed at the foundations of the Western Capitalist Economies.

(In fact, "Pyramid" is probably the wrong term to use, because as the Great Pyramids of Giza have demonstrated these last 5,000 years, pyramids are actually quite stable structures. A "House of Cards" would be a better metaphor; but it doesn't fit the prose so harmoniously, and lacks the connotations that the term "Pyramid" brings, when used to discuss financial schemes...)

Point being that with such an unstable, multi-layered structure having been built out of the thin-air of Central Banks' printing presses, it turned out (to many intelligent people's surprise, surprisingly) that it would only take the failure of a small but significant component, to bring the whole structure crashing down. And if it hadn't been the collapse of Lehman Brothers' Bank, it would have been the collapse of another similar institution that would have done the business.

There's a scene in the film [url=http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0112641/?ref_=nv_sr_5 ]"Casino"[/url], where Robert De Niro, playing Casino Boss Sam "Ace" Rothstein, narrates the experience of looking after a professional, high-stakes gambler. After arranging for the professional gambler to miss a plane flight, Rothstein (De Niro) describes how he entices the gambler back to the casino's card tables.

At first, the gambler just makes low-stakes (for that particular gambler anyway) bets. But as Rothstein points out, when the gambler wins a low-stake bet, the gambler doesn't count it as a win: he counts it as a loss, given how much more the gambler could have won if he'd bet a higher stake. Eventually, because of this, the gambler starts making higher and higher stake bets; and before too long, Rothstein's casino has recovered all the money it had previously lost *AND* fleeced the gambler for all of the money he'd originally arrived with.

It was (and is) the same situation with Investment Banks.

The more prudential amongst us might consider it safer to not put *EVERYTHING* we own at risk with a speculative gamble. But in the highly-pressured World of Investment Finance, maintaining a safety reserve of funds or collateral just means missing out on potential profits. If you've got money that can be used to generate a profit, why wouldn't you use *ALL* of it to generate the biggest profit possible?

In other words: if you are holding the scrip for a debt obligation owed to you, and you can use that scrip as collateral to borrow money to make bigger bets, why wouldn't you?

Oh, of course you are going to [url=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hedge_(finance)]"Hedge"[/url] your bets - you're not completely reckless after all! And of course your..."investment choices" are overseen and scrutinised to make sure you are not taking any wholly unnecessary risks; and of course you are constrained by [url=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monetary_policy#Reserve_requirements]"Reserve Requirement"[/url] regulations, enforced (well, overseen at least...) by your Government's own Central Bank...

So, you know, surely it's not actually possible for you to make any decisions that will seriously threaten the general viability of your financial institution, or undermine the foundations of the Banking System as a whole.

Is it.

Is it?

Well, that all comes down to your Safety Margins.

In commercial aviation, Safety Margins are pretty fucking wide - thank goodness. If they weren't, nobody in their right mind would get on a plane; and nobody in their right mind would let those planes take to the skies. The slightest possibility that a small chip or scratch in a plane's window might develop into something more serious at altitude, and the plane is grounded. There's probably nothing to worry about; there's almost certainly no need to prevent the plane from flying... But, you know: better to be safe than sorry.

But when it comes to Investment Finance... Well, "Faint heart never won fair maiden."

Sure, keep you're the value of your speculative investments well away from breaching your "Reserve Requirements" (the amount of money you *MUST* possess in liquid assets, if you want to borrow any more); but you know, that money will just be sitting there, safe and sound, but not, you know, actually doing anything. And given all of your hedging operations, and of course, let's not forget the facility for [url=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Credit_default_swap]"Credit Default Swap"[/url] insurance, where really, is the risk?

Surely the more money you can earn for your Institution, the more robust and sound you must make that Institution? Seems a real shame to just have all that money sitting there when, you know, it could be working for you...

Worst case scenario, all you need to do is go out and find some other poor schmucks to sign-up to yet more credit-cards, or to take-out or extend a mortgage, and you can expand your collateral base to shore up your own reserves.

Right?

Well, in theory, there's no problem with that - though some might argue that counting money that you've loaned out to somebody else as an item of your own "collateral", is a bit dubious...

But also in theory, there is just an outside possibility that as the volume and intensity of all this free-and-easy lending increases, there may come a point where there simply is nobody left to lend money to. Or at least, that there is no-one left who wants to borrow any more money: either because they have already borrowed more than they are comfortable with; or they are just the kind of people who don't borrow money, if they can avoid doing so.

And of course maybe, just maybe, there's a slight possibility that some of the people you have already loaned money might, you know, just well, struggle to keep up with the repayments...

Now your problem right there is that with an entire Banking System living the High-Life, fuelled by giving out underpinning loans to any random yahoo that wanders in off the Street, and borrowing money from a Central Bank off the back of those loans... It might just be that *IF* - and I'm only saying "if" - that theoretical point where everyone is too tapped out to want to borrow any more is reached, it might take a bit of time for news of this to filter out to everyone in the Banking System who needs to know this fact.

I mean, obviously if you know that there is no possibility of creating anymore underpinning loans to members of the public (because they have all exhausted their ability and/or desire to shoulder any more loans), then you will know that you have reached your maximal limits on the expansion of your own collateral base. And obviously, you will adjust the risk/ recklessness of your own speculations accordingly. That's obvious.

But if you *HAVEN'T* realised that you are *NOT* going to be able to further twist Joe Public's arm into taking on more consumer debt; or if news hasn't yet reached you that not everyone you previously loaned money to is necessarily sticking rigidly to their repayment schedules: you may just carry on as though this wasn't the case.

You can hardly be blamed for that, can you? It's not your fault if nobody has bothered to tell you that rather important bit of information, is it?

And before you know it, you *HAVE* had a bet go bad that *CANNOT* be covered without seriously breaching your "Reserve Requirements" threshold. And if enough of your colleagues haven't been informed of the Changed Nature of Things either; then it's just possible that collectively, you've wiped out *ALL* your organisation's reserves.

And now, you're proper fucked.

And guess what? So too are the other institutions who are counting on you to meet *YOUR* repayments, so that they can meet theirs.

Furthermore, depending on the scale that the entire Debt Pyramid (sorry: House of Cards) has been allowed to reach by whichever government is meant to keep a lid on these things: the Whole Financial System is pretty much fucked as well.

Guess what?

End of Part Two.

:>_