Oooh...! Didn't see this more fulsome response you'd added to your briefer initial riposte AV. Not until Hoff quoted it in his response...

Right then!

[quote="Alaskan Viking"][color=#FF0000]That is a piss weak argument Holyman, as in, Budweiser light piss weak.

The idea that the rich should accept draconian expropriation of their property. and crippling regulation of their businesses, because it is in their own rational self interest, is preposterous.[/color][/quote]

That *IS* a preposterous idea AV. Who suggested that?!? I'd like to give them a piece of my mind! Goddammit!!

*NO* rational human being is *EVER* going to accept expropriation of their property, whether they have only got a single pot to piss in, or if they are as rich as Croesus. Only a fucking moron would suggest this course of action as a means to achieving Economic stability!

Which fucking tool said they thought this would be a good idea?!

And the same goes for "crippling regulation of [...] businesses"! The clue is in the statement ffs!

Any action or policy that cripples a business is *OBVIOUSLY* counter-productive. Again, only a half-wit would propose such a thing.

It's a good job you and I are around to stop people believing in such foolish notions, isn't it AV?

[quote="Alaskan Viking"][color=#FF0000]If it was really in their best interest to pay higher taxes, no wealthy person would be voting Republican (or Liberal, Torry, whatever you guys call your neo-liberals). Nor would there be any argument about the increasing scope of government and social welfare spending. [/color][/quote]

And don't get me started on taxes on productivity either! Especially Central/Federal Government taxes!

I mean, before I say anything else about the mechanics and disincentivising aspects of taxation, let's talk about how fucking wasteful Governments are when it comes to spending other peoples' money!

*TRILLIONS* of Dollars, Pounds and Euros just handed over without question to bail out a Banking Sector that totally fucked itself in the arse (too busy fucking everyone else in the arse to notice it was fucking itself!). Almost as much wasted again, year on year, on totally pointless "Defense" spending: very little of which finds its way into the pockets of the hard-pressed men and women (and their families) who actually pledge their lives to Military Service. Most of the trillions (of taxation revenues) get funnelled directly to the hog-trough of "Defense" contractors, invariably for bloated, over-designed and never delivered "Toys for Boys"!

And what about Welfare Spending!?

It should not be the business of Central/Federal Government to be doling out money to people who aren't able to support themselves. That sort of thing can only encourage dependency, diminish self-respect, and create a Society of people who think they must behave deferentially towards the politicians they believe they must depend upon for their own survival.

At most, it should be the responsibility of individual local communities to organise support and assistance for those people who have fallen on hard times - for whatever reason. Nobody wants to be paying taxes to support some random yahoo on the other side of the country, whom they have never met, much less ever cared about.

If Social Welfare is a concern to any given community, then it is best left to that community itself to work out how best to help the individuals known to them to get back on their feet. They will know the people concerned, and they will know if the best course of action to just dole out money every week, or to consider some more challenging and constructive course of action.

Politicians - particularly Left-Wing/Socialist politicians - *LOVE* the idea of distributing (minimal) welfare payments. Their apparent largesse (distributing other working people's money!) makes them seem generous, relevant and therefore desirable to vote for. But it reduces the recipients of welfare payments to a state of utter dependency. And that only serves the politicians: not the welfare recipients or communities and societies as a Whole!

So fuck those wasteful bastards with their profligate and Holier-than-Thou attitudes to spending other hard-working peoples' money!

Cut out all that waste and unnecessary spending, and I reckon that the individual and corporate taxation rate need be no more than 10% at most. I even think that 10% rate should be entirely voluntary. Of course the taxation system should be transparent; of course everyone else in the Society you share should know how much you are or are not contributing financially to that Society; but *OBVIOUSLY* it should be voluntary, and *OBVIOUSLY* it shouldn't be pissed up the wall by politicians looking to feather their own and their campaign donors' nests!

[quote="Alaskan Viking"][color=#FF0000]The idea that the 3rd world would somehow survive the next great depression better than the super rich, is likewise preposterous. Just what kind of scenario, short of nuclear war or zombie apocalypse, would result in the richest, most powerful, most influential, segment of society suddenly being worse off than the people who cannot even feed themselves during the 'good' times? Is this the same group of evil super rich individuals which you routinely assert actually control the entire world, secretly influencing Obama like a puppet? Even if there was some kind of hyper inflation, or EMP attack on electronic banking, that ruined the value of their "money"; the idea that all of their wealth and connections would just disappear suddenly and they'd be worse off than an African subsistence farmer, is absurd.[/color][/quote]

Ah, I see. So you're responding to my hypothesis where there is total Economic collapse and all human beings are reduced to surviving purely on their practical abilities for vital subsistence, by stating that total Economic collapse would not be a total Economic collapse.

That if the value of "money" was completely eradicated in Human Society and relative worth was based solely on the effective value of an individual's skill in relation to Social survival and progress, that these people who have lived in gilded cages these last few decades are still going to be considered as highly prized assets to a post-Monetary Society.

In short, you are dismissing my hypothesis as absurd, rather than considering the implications it proposes.

Yeah, I could see how that would be the easier thing to do, from your perspective.

>&8~

[quote="Alaskan Viking"][color=#FF0000]And you include the middle class people in this group of potential losers, also? Most of the people I know make six figure salaries and work as carpenters, truck drivers, diesel mechanics, welders, etc the idea that these people are helpless and totally dependent on the skill of others to "care for and to protect them" is asinine.[/color][/quote]

Actually, in the current Economic Paradigm, with Income Inequality at current levels, I'm not so sure that a six-figure salary counts as "Middle Class" anymore. "Middle Income", maybe, but I'm not so sure that the "Middle Class" even exists anymore does it? Certainly not in any stable or enduring form.

I think that's why the "99%" term has gained such, uh, currency. Anyone with liquid assets that can be counted with six figures or less is pretty much in the same boat.

I think the real metric these days is: can you carelessly spend money on the things that you decide you want?

The "1%" certainly can. In fact, they get pretty desperate about having to create more and more things to want, because they can and do just immediately buy anything they think they want, as soon as they think they want it.

Is that a situation your carpenter, truck driver, mechanic and welder friends find themselves in? Or do they still have to consider carefully how to spend the money they have available to them?

In my hypothesis of total Economic collapse, I'm *COUNTING* on the skilled, "Middle Class" artisans and service providers to keep the Human Race from total Civilisational collapse. It's the people who are currently manufacturing 7-figure *DAILY* incomes that I'm struggling to find a place for in the post-Monetary World Order...

:-??

[quote="Alaskan Viking"][color=#FF0000]If the world does totally go to shit, sure, the super rich may have to sell a few of their private jets...[/color][/quote]

To whom would they sell those private jets?

[quote="Alaskan Viking"][color=#FF0000]Add to this the fact that your entire argument hinges on the notion that wealth is a zero sum game and is totally relative. Which is completely and utterly false.[/color][/quote]

Can you explain how "wealth" is *NOT* a relative term then AV?

Can everybody in the World be exactly as "wealthy" as everyone else?

[quote="Alaskan Viking"][color=#FF0000] When Foota called you on this you made some lame excuse about how income inequality is,  supposedly, ~"an indicator of the general health of an economy". I would love to see hard economic data to support this claim.[/color][/quote]

Well, it is primarily about an income inequality being the enemy of sustainable growth. This primarily due to the lack of investment in Human Capital.

But don't take my words for it, read what the International Monetary Fund has to say on the subject:

http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/sdn/2011/sdn1108.pdf

[quote="Alaskan Viking"][color=#FF0000]The only actual economic argument on income inequality as being harmful to the economy as a whole, is a Keynesian one: ~"If poor people don't have money, then they cannot purchase the goods and services of the corporations owned by the rich." Which you didn't even bother to bring up so I won't bother debunking it.[/color][/quote]

Actually, I did:

[quote="Holyman"][color=#0000FF]And an Industrial Capitalist, whilst ramping up production and trying to get as many manufactured goods out of the factory door, will provide employment, livelihood, and maybe even a trade for many workers. More than a few Industrial Capitalists even recognised that it was in their own personal financial interests, to make sure that those who they employed were paid enough to be able to afford to buy the products they were engaged to make.[/color][/quote]

So feel free to debunk away!

[quote="Alaskan Viking"][color=#FF0000]When people argue against income inequality, it is almost always done on moral grounds. And yet you assert that these moral reasons are invalid, or unnecessary? [/color][/quote]

I know when people argue against income inequality, that it is almost always done on moral grounds. And that's just one of the reasons why I don't bother feeling the need to do the same: no need to add my voice to the countless others that are already arguing for and against income inequality on moral grounds, is there?

It's interesting isn't it, how I went to great lengths to disclaim any attempt on my part to address Income Inequality from a moral perspective; and yet your response - the initial one at least - was instinctively, and dare I say habitually, to mount a defence of Income Inequality, on moral grounds.

Too much reliance on "Atlas Shrugged", methinks!

Actually, I think that to argue for or against *ANYTHING* on moral grounds is pointless.

Morality is just a question of perspective. People select their "morality" to suit their own predilections and predispositions. Morality is invariably a response conditioned by social and familial upbringing. It doesn't have any intellectual merit and therefore doesn't have any relevance to intellectual debate.

Morality is all about which side of the fence you sit on:

It is highly immoral for "them" to kill "us"; but it is right and proper for "us" to kill "them".

It is morally objectionable for "others" to benefit at "our" expense; but it is entirely appropriate when "our" benefits come at "others" expense.

Morality is sophomoric AV; it is a self-reinforcing delusion; it has so far failed to produce anything like a Universal Standard, equally and equitably applied to all Human Behaviour.

So I don't waste my Time with it.

Soz. :-??

[quote="Alaskan Viking"][color=#FF0000]Does this apply to the universal healthcare debate as well? I would love to hear your, purely economic and utilitarian, justification for having the state spend $100,000.00 on a surgery to keep a homeless drunkard alive. You know, without using morals or emotion at all. [/color][/quote]

Well, I'll give it a whirl; but I'll do so in the almost certain anticipation that you'll imagine up some way to find fault with the intellectual foundation or structure of any explanation I might give..!

First off, as I hope I made clear with my diatribe at the top of this post: I don't think "The State" should spend anything on anyone.

I don't believe in "The State". I don't believe that it should be up to "The State" to determine who should or shouldn't receive anything. And I certainly don't believe that it should be up to "The State" to decide if or how much money to spend on anything to do with an individual Human Life.

And that lack of belief has nothing to do with my thinking that "The State" is morally wrong or bad. I just think that from a practical, human-social perspective, the notion of "The State" is an anachronism.

Like the Pentateuch, or Feudalism, I'm sure that Statism had its merits and purpose at a given stage of Human Social Development; but nowadays, I think the obsession with "The State" is retarded. I don't accept ideological labels easily, but if forced to, I'd be much more likely to opt for "Anarchist" than "Statist".

So I'm certainly not in any position to make a case for "The State" spending any money on your homeless drunkard.

But less you consider me guilty of the same charge I levelled at you for dismissing my hypothesis:

Let us say that a local, geographically defined Community is in a position to decide if a particular individual that is alive within that Community should benefit from a medical procedure that the Community as a whole can afford to pay for, but that the individual (your homeless drunkard) can not.

Well, firstly, who is to say that your homeless drunkard should even be considered for receiving medical treatment? That sounds suspiciously to me like a moral proposition..! Sounds to me like an imposition of a morality that dictates that all Human Life should be preserved wherever possible.

From an amoral perspective, I would have to first raise the question: has anyone asked the homeless drunkard if he actually *WANTS* the surgery?

Personally, I've always considered alcoholism to be a very slow-motion form of suicide. Perhaps your homeless drunkard *WANTS* to die: that's why he's been drinking so much. I don't have any morals remember, so if someone wants to kill themselves - fast or slow - I haven't got a problem with that. Surely that's the ultimate exercise of Free Will. And who am I to interfere with Free Will?

But again, so as not to sabotage your hypothetical, let's assume that your homeless drunkard *DOES* want the surgery; and that this desire goes hand-in-hand with my other assumption/adjustment that the Community he lives in is in a position to pay for it.

So why might that Community choose to pay for that surgery?

Well, I think it might choose to pay for that surgery in order to underwrite and confirm the validity of the notion of *UNIVERSAL* Healthcare.

I think that the provision of Universal Healthcare is practically beneficial to any given Community or Society, because it acts to reassure the individual members of the group that if they get sick and are unable to look after themselves, the Community or Society to which they belong will look after them. The certain knowledge that, should a person fall sick and not be able to be economically productive, their Community or Society will do what it can to return them to full social and economic productivity - and also to materially subsidise them whilst they are unable to provide for themselves - will ensure that during treatment and recovery, the individual need *ONLY* focus on getting better. They need not add to their worries about their physical health, worries about how they are going to pay for their treatment and recovery, and the worry about who is going to provide for them and their family whilst they are unable to.

Economically, Socially and probably cynically: this has to be a practical benefit for the Community as a whole to provide to its individual members.

The alternative would have to be the message from the Community to its individual members:

"If you get sick, you're on your own. You better hope that you don't get sick, or that if you do, that you've stashed enough money away whilst you were able to work, to fund your treatment, recovery, and you and your family's lifestyle whilst you can't work."

Now, apart from anything else, this seems like a message rooted in morality. It can only come from people who feel it is "wrong" to look after a fellow species-member who is sick. Practically, socially and selfishly, it makes more sense to have a social culture where sick and weak members are restored to full strength as soon as practically possible: this because there is (all sorts of) Strength in Numbers.

Obviously (for the most part at least) Western Civilisation has evolved beyond the Spartan practice of nailing the weak and the sick to the hillside. And this is largely because of the recognition that the strength and purity of physical genetic stock is not the only parameter with which to measure the strength of a Community or Society.

Someone like Stephen Hawking would seem to be the best example of this. His scientific insights (whilst perhaps a bit over-glorified on their own terms) have positively benefited Society, in a way that would not have been possible without the help of those willing to support his obviously non-revenue generating physical condition.

Point is that Society recognises that it is worth keeping some people around, in order to benefit from their intellectual contributions, even where their physicality may be frail. This is a practical, selfish, cynical attitude, but one which benefits both Community and Individual.

From a less-exalted position: in a Consumer-driven Economy, maintaining and increasing the number of consumers able to purchase products of the Economy is also beneficial. This is the nexus between Economic and Social growth. So there is a vested interest in maintaining the vitality of an Economy's customer-base too.

So: this illustrates why (I think) the provision of Universal Healthcare within a given Community or Society is a positive. Because:

It removes the psychological stress associated with financial and social worries from an individual who is physically sick, and this promotes recovery to full vitality and productivity

It encourages social cohesion and inclusivity, and promotes the mutual benefits of Collectivism

And it preserves and develops the Human Capital within a consumption-based Economic System.

But why-oh-why, I hear you ask, would any of this apply to the Town Drunk?

Well, that has to do with the conceptual notion of "Universal Healthcare", and reinforcing the unconditional nature of such a system.

If a "Universal Healthcare" system comes with conditions that have to be met in order for someone to receive its benefits, then it is not truly "Universal Healthcare". If it is understood that there are certain situations an individual could put or find themselves in where they would *NOT* qualify for the benefits of "Universal Healthcare", then this fails to meet the requirements of point 1 (above).

It also undermines point 2, by establishing certain requirements that *MUST* be met, in order for an individual citizen to be included in and counted amongst a particular Community or Society. This isn't or shouldn't be a worry for *MOST* people; but it will be a concern for some.

Of course, we know that certain behaviours or unmet requirements can and will result in a member of Society being punished for criminality, and in all likelihood, incarcerated at Society's expense. But the irony here is that, people put in prison by a Society always *DO* receive Universal Healthcare cover, at no cost to themselves (the practice of making prisoners pay for their own incarceration was largely phased out in the early 19th Century).

And to some extent, the failure to extend the benefits of Universal Healthcare to the homeless drunkard does have some impact on point 3, because even a drunkard has to buy his poison from somewhere...

So there you go AV. How'd I do?

I say give your homeless drunkard the surgery, because it reminds everyone else in the Community that whatever depths their own lives may sink to, they will always be able to count on receiving any medical treatment they require.

This will have a positive influence on recovery times, on Social morale, and for the Consumer Economy as a whole.

:D