[b]Part Three: Nemesis[/b]

Fucked Economy is fucked then.

What happens next?

Well, as a career politician, entrusted with all the responsibilities that come with your occupation of the "Highest Offices" of Society, one of your tasks is to prevent the total and complete collapse of Society as everyone knows it.

Another of your tasks is to ensure that all those organisations and "High Net-worth Individuals" who paid for your election campaign, are well-served by your policies and actions, even and perhaps especially if it looks like the overall fabric of Society is looking a bit dodgy...

But if you're forced to choose between doing one or the other, then you've got a bit of a dilemma on your hands!

Fortunately, "Rome wasn't built in a day", and nor will it collapse in a single day either. So if at all possible, try and patch things up as best as possible, and try and hold off that Complete Collapse of Society for as long as it takes for the responsibility to do something about it to shift to the next person to occupy your High Office!

So, on the one hand, you have got a Finance Capitalism-based Economy that is totally in the tank, riddled as it is with a cancer comprised of all manner of incomprehensible debt instruments and obligations. And on the other hand, you have a Society that possesses value in the form of a Public Service Infrastructure, and an ability to tax the citizens of that Society and decide how best to spend the money you can raise from that taxation.

Of course, raising the rate at which taxes are levied is rarely a move that maintains or wins popular support; but the other way you can increase the funds that you have at your disposal as a government, is to reduce or eliminate the services that existing levels of taxation pay for.

In other words: keep taxes as they are, but spend less on Public Services, and you'll have more money at your disposal.

Cutting Public Services isn't a popular move either, but so long as you do it carefully - that is: carefully justify the cuts - it'll be a lot less unpopular than raising taxes.

And now that you've managed to increase the money you have available to you as a holder of Public Office, you can best decide if you are:

Going to spend it in a way that reduces the hardships now being experienced by your Society's Citizenry, as a result of the meltdown of the Financial System;

Or spend it in a way that reduces the loss in incomes being experienced by those ultra-wealthy organisations and individuals who paid to put you into your Public Office.

Now, you've got to think carefully here, because this is a One-Time Deal. Once you've cut your Public Services back to the bone - or sold them off to the Private Sector altogether - you won't be able to reduce them any further. It won't do any good looking in that cupboard again, because it will be bare.

Of course in theory, if you did need more money, you could go to the last resort of raising taxes. But aside from how unpopular such a move would obviously be - *ESPECIALLY* during a Recession/Depression - there is the fact that where there is high unemployment and low commercial activity, raising taxes won't really generate any additional revenue: because you can't tax people and businesses that have no incomes.

So you really do have only One Chance to spend this money wisely, as there will be no more available to you if you spend it unwisely...

...

Well, I think we all know what our "Dear Leaders" decided to do with the money raised from their "Austerity Programmes", don't we?

http://www.forbes.com/sites/traceygreenstein/2011/09/20/the-feds-16-trillion-bailouts-under-reported/

[quote]" The audit of the Fed's emergency lending programs was scarcely reported by mainstream media - albeit the results are undoubtedly newsworthy.  It is the first audit of the Fed in United States history since its beginnings in 1913.  The findings verify that over $16 trillion was allocated to corporations and banks internationally, purportedly for "financial assistance" during and after the 2008 fiscal crisis."[/quote]

The above article from Forbes Magazine is dated 20th September, 2011.

Since then, the Federal Reserve Bank of America has continued to spend $85 billion a month, purchasing the same "Mortgage Backed Securities" that created the mess in the first place.

http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/fed-maintains-85-billion-pace-of-purchases-as-growth-pauses.html

That is: the Federal Reserve has been spending more than $1 trillion a year *MAINTAINING* the Debt Pyramid, trying to prevent its total and utter collapse.

In itself, spending this kind of money (which is only "money" that the Fed prints in any case...) to stave off Total Economic Collapse is not necessarily an immoral or impractical act. But perhaps spending this kind of money by giving it to the individuals and organisations who *CREATED* the current Economic catastrophe, in order to *MAINTAIN* the System that collapsed to cause the catastrophe, is perhaps a bit less than entirely virtuous...

Now it is important to bear in mind the primer I gave about the structure of the Debt Pyramid, of which these Mortgage-Backed Securities are such a key component:

Joe Mortgage-Seeker walks into a Main-Street/High-Street bank and asks for a mortgage. And assuming that it is still 2007, that mortgage application is granted.

The Bank then uses the mortgage arrangement (along with a bunch of others) to create a "Mortgage Backed Security", which it then uses as collateral to finance its own borrowing requirements from another Investment Bank, or its own Investment Banking operations.

And all of the combined Mortgage Backed Securities that are pledged as collateral for Inter-Bank lending, are then used as collateral to borrow money from a Central Bank.

Fast forward to the Present Day, and the Federal Reserve Bank (and the Bank of England, and the Central European Bank) are spending billions of Dollars, Pounds and Euros to buy these (by now) hopelessly toxic and worthless) Mortgage Backed Securities from the banks that constructed them for use in their Debt Pyramid Schemes.

The question has to be asked then:

What if that $85 billion a month (in America; plus what the BofE and CEB are similarly spending) was given to the likes of Joe Mortgage-Seeker, to help him (and others like him) meet his monthly mortgage repayment?

Well, for starters, mortgage delinquency rates (in the U.S., but similar elsewhere in the OECD) where never much above 10%, and is currently around the 5% mark.

http://newsroom.transunion.com/press-releases/transunion-national-mortgage-loan-delinquency-rat-1040047#.Uu-yQPl_v-I

And according to the Federal Reserve, the total amount of residential mortgage debt outstanding is around $10 trillion.

http://www.federalreserve.gov/econresdata/releases/mortoutstand/current.htm

So that means that there is currently (in the U.S.) about $500 billion worth of mortgages that are in "delinquency". That's slightly less than *HALF* the amount of money that the Federal Reserve is paying *EVERY YEAR* to purchase Mortgage Backed Securities from the Investment Banking System.

Or in other words: with just six months of "Quantitative Easing" spend, the Federal Reserve could completely pay off all delinquent mortgages in the U.S.

Or, more realistically, it could spread the same amount of money amongst all holders of residential mortgages in the U.S., and make life a *LOT* more manageable for millions of Americans.

And less you still have any sympathy left for the poor souls in the Investment Banking System: this would *ALSO* mean that the underlying debts that service the overall Debt Pyramid would *ALL* be serviced, exactly in accordance with the way that the fuckers who set up that system (and those who allowed it be set-up) in the first place, claim they thought it should work.

So why the fuck hasn't that happened?

Well, if you think that certain sections of Society get upset if you mention the possibility of *RAISING* taxes, that upset is only likely to be exceeded by the reaction to any proposal to start handing money *BACK* to the people who paid it.

When the whole Banking Crisis first began to unravel in 2008/2009, there was a concerted (and nearly successful) attempt to blame the whole situation on "Sub-Prime Borrowers". The noble and worthy Investment Bankers who established the Debt Pyramid schemes in the first place couldn't possibly be at fault: it *HAD* to be the fault of those feckless, irresponsible and anti-social individuals who had taken out more loans than they could possibly afford to pay!!

If anyone had (or still might) suggest simply paying off the mortgages of millions of ordinary citizens, there would have been riots!! Probably!! Maybe...

At the least, certain sections of Society who opted *NOT* to take advantage of cheap and easy credit, and instead opted for a less opulent but more fiscally disciplined way of life, would have been outraged if anyone had suggested bailing out their feckless and irresponsible neighbours: *OUTRAGED* I tell you!!!

Much better to pour unimaginable amounts of money into the unimaginable world of High Finance, than to see the upstarts who moved into a neighbourhood way above their station in Life, have the mortgages they took out to enable that move paid off - or even just reduced to a more sensible level.

Never mind the fact that such a course of action would have freed up a lot more incomes to be disposed on reigniting the consumption-based Economy. Never mind that the revitalising of the Economy would have created a surge in tax revenues. Never mind that those tax revenues could have been used to reinstate the cuts in Public Services that were implemented in order to raise the money to give back to the same citizens..!

The prospect of a government making huge lump-sum payments to its citizens to help them out of financial distress, was just going to be too much for some people to accept.

So, sadly, reluctantly, and I'm sure in a somewhat baffled state, our Dear Leaders took the only other course of action available to them: which was to give all of that money to the bankers who created the mess in the first place; to make sure that those bankers at least didn't have to suffer; and to try and patch-up and keep afloat the bloated and moribund Debt Bubble, that the Western Economies had and have become.

Sad, but True.

End of Part Three.

:>_