[quote=suckyshot][color=green]It's funny, I vividly recall arguing for this same thing in Model UN in HS; the topic at hand was how to allocate money to poorly developed nations to enable any form of economic growth and security at all. To me, without knowing anything at all, the most obvious solution was to put all of that money into infrastructure; get a nation able to run on its own, make it simple for businesses to be able to establish themselves, and keep prices low, by making the transportation of goods cheap, and the cost of living low.

That is the ONLY reason I advocate still keeping taxes of some form; we need to be able to make it easier on businesses and people alike, to grow and thrive.

Dumping money into failing businesses isn't the answer, it hasn't been for a long time. Our roads are a disgrace, our water system is a disgrace, our power grid, sewers bridges, levees, public transit, all falling the fuck apart, and we're not willing to put out the money to fund any of it.

We can either accept that allocating money to this will save and benefit us greatly in the future, or allow it to continue to crumble until we're all living in third-world conditions, with power that's inconsistent, water so filthy we can't drink it, roads clogged with traffic at all hours of the day, and logistical costs so high, no business could afford to stay in business.[/color][/quote]

It's all about finding the correct balance Sucky.

Right now, *EVERYTHING* is so out of balance that nothing short of a complete overhaul is required to balance it all.

The main problem - in my oh-so humble opinion - is the confluence between Politics and Economics, and the inevitable contradictions this throws up.

Economic events and changes, these days, occur and move at the speed of light. That is, the speed at which financial transactions are taking place around the World, carried on fibre optic communications lines, if you like.

But Politics and politicians move at about the same speed as your average glacier.

Actually, I'm totally with Foota on the need for government and politicians to be kept as far away from Finance and Economics as possible. Involvement with Finance completely corrupts politicians' objectivity, and slow-moving government bureaucracies don't have a hope in hell of keeping up with the fast pace changes in Global Finance.

That doesn't mean that I think that Finance should be unregulated. It just means that I don't think that Finance should be regulated by politicians. And *THAT* doesn't mean that I think Finance should be regulated by those who need regulating either.

Managing Finance and Economics is a practical, mathematical challenge, not an ideological or even moral one.

It is a basic truism of Human Nature that Greed affects people in very strange, usually quite negative ways. I'm not a morally inclined person, so I'm not coming from the position that Greed is "Bad" or "Good". Greed is just what it is: the desire for more than one needs.

I certainly eat more than I need to, and I am quite happy to earn more money than I need to survive. So I'm in no position to take the moral high ground on Greed.

But I also recognise that when faced with an opportunity to have more money than I currently have (and I already have more than I need to ensure my own and my family's natural survival), my rational faculties tend to suffer as I start dreaming about all the luxuries that additional money might afford me.

So whilst the morality of Greed is just a question of perspective, it must be understood and accepted that Greed has an intoxicating and irrational effect on people. It narrows the mind. It makes people look at things in the short-term, rather than the long-term. It encourages people to take risks that they might not otherwise take.

And that should make it clear that anyone who stands to personally benefit from the regulation or de-regulation of Finance is hopelessly unqualified to be involved in assessing the scope and enforcement of that regulation.

It should be clear by now that what happens with Global Finance and Economics has an enormous impact upon the general Health & Safety of individuals, societies, and the Human Race as a Whole. Is management of Global Finance something then that we wish to continue to see managed by individuals who work within Global Finance, and the politicians they own?

I don't think so.

That said, Global Finance is in such a mess at the moment, that I really don't see how anything less than a complete redesign and rebuild of our Global Economic System can have any positive impact. We need to wipe the slate completely, and start all over again.

We should bear in mind that Economics and Finance are a purely Human Abstract. It is something that Human Society has put together all by itself, without any guidance or imperative from Science, Nature, Deity or Deities unknown.

Global Economics exists purely in the minds of the clever monkeys that dominate this Planet. Our currencies are Fiat Currencies, based not on any tangible commodity, but purely on our confidence in one another. How much pure wealth we own and how much money we owe, is determined solely by agreement and collusion.

According to the Bank of International Settlements in Basle, Switzerland, the amount of outstanding debt in the Global derivatives market in 2009, was $1.144 quadrillion ($1,144 trillion). Throw in all the other forms of financial debt, and the total easily clears $1.5 quadrillion ($1,500 trillion+).

http://economicedge.blogspot.com/2009/04/global-derivatives-14-quadrillion-up-22.html

To put that into perspective:

The GDP of the United States is currently around $14 trillion.

The GDP of the Whole World is about $75 trillion.

The value of all the real estate of the entire World is valued at about $75 trillion.

The World stock and bond markets are valued at about $100 trillion.

In summary then, the entire Human Race has an income of about $75 trillion, assets of about $175 trillion, and has liabilities of around $1,500 trillion.

By any reasonable measure, the Human Race is bankrupt.

But because there is no Inter-Galactic IRS or Bailiffs to collect (that we are aware of...), Humanity just carries on regardless.

But sooner or later - and it would appear to be sooner rather than later - something will have to give.

[face_peace]