In Reply To #87

In Reply To #67

Interesting. So what would determine the 'value' (in terms of purchasing, and also the 'exchange rate') of these credits?

Prob best just to link me to a website!

Hah! To the best of my knowledge there ISN'T a website or web-source I can link you to about that particular idea... It's all my own work! :)

I did put a Wiki-link in for Participatory Economics (PARECON), and I noticed there were some links from there to other alternative economic systems, so you might start looking there...

Alternatively, read on:

The value of "Environmental Credits" and "Social Credits", their purchasing power and the exchange rates between them and what we can call "Fiscal Credits"; that can and would all be determined in the same way we currently determine the value of Fiscal Credits.

I'll just mention again (for the benefit of others of course 'Slacks :)) that the currencies we use throughout the World are Fiat Currencies.

Currencies used to be backed up by a commodity standard - usually gold. Currency notes were actually promissory notes that could be presented to the issuing bank and exchanged for the relevant amount of gold. But this all changed in the early 20th Century, when the link to gold was gradually abolished throughout the World.

Nowadays, currencies are backed by government fiat, which basically means that the issuing government (or private bank in the case of the US Federal Reserve) guarantees a certain level of value for the currency, within the issuing economy.

So the value of currencies, or "Fiscal Credits", is entirely notional, not tangible.

How much a particular currency is worth is based on multiple fluctuating conditions, subject to inflation and deflation. A currency note or coin has no intrinsic value - beyond the value of the paper or metal used to mint the currency - but rather it has value agreed upon by the two parties exchanging those currency tokens.

And here we have to consider the difference between something's "value" and its "worth".

Fifty years or so ago, the average residential property in the UK was VALUED at £2,000; its WORTH though, was as a home to someone on an average UK income.

Fifty years later, the average residential property in the UK is WORTH the same - it is still only an average home - but is now VALUED at closer to £200,000.

Nothing has changed: the same people still need to live in the same home; but the value of that home has risen in line with inflation, and supply and demand.

So we see from this that "value" has little or nothing to do with something's intrinsic worth.

Now if we flip to my new system of "Holy-Economics", we can see that all I'm attempting to do is apply some complimentary indices to stabilise the connection between something's value, and its actual worth.

How do we assess the worth of a currency speculator or derivatives trader, in the World's financial markets? How do we assess the worth of a nurse or police officer? How do we assess the worth of an organic farmer? Which occupation is worth more to Society and/or the Planet as a whole?

There probably isn't an assessment of their relative worth that could be made fairly and objectively, without our own prejudices and stereotyping getting in the way. But what we can see is that our current economic systems VALUE the financial traders far, far, FAR higher than the public servants and environmental caretakers.

Is this fair?

Well, that's a tough question to answer.

Marx, Engels and other assorted Communitarians attempted to answer the question with a resounding "No!" They started calling the rich elites all sorts of unpleasant names like "Bourgeoisie", and "Running-dogs of the Capitalist Imperialists": all to presage and "morally legitimise [sic]" a revolutionary (and often violent) redistribution of wealth, based on social worth.

But the fundamental error they made - and their fatal conceit, IMO - was to attack the people, the individual human beings, who had, uh, capitalised on the Capitalist System, in order to enrich themselves, as valued in terms of wealth. What they didn't do, was address the systemic faults and assumptions of a system where "value" had little or no connection with worth.

Fact is, if you're going to use a solely VALUE-based system of Economics, then those capable of creating and generating the most "value" within that system, always should and are always going to end up being valued most highly, within that system. (Even as they remain a worthless adjunct to Human Society...)

But if you discard, reject or ignore that system, and its values, then the sheer measure of wealth becomes irrelevant, and you can concentrate more on worth.

Let the "bourgeoisies" and the "Capitalist Running-Dogs" continue to play whatever games they want, with those value-numbers that are based on nothing more than thin-air and abstract notional "value". Their activity, in and of itself, need cause no-one else any harm. One can only be damaged or diminished by one's sense of relative poverty, if one values one's worth using the same measures of worth as those who spend their time playing with numbers that have no REAL connection to any aspect of Human Existence.

If you value your personal worth based on your physical, intellectual and Emotional contribution to Human Society and the Planet; then how much that contribution is valued at in pure economic terms, ceases to be of any relevance to you. You don't need to "Smash the Capitalist System": you just need to ignore it.

So, with my parallel Social and Environmental "Economies", we get the opportunity to measure worth on additional or different scales. A value-system applies, but rather it being a value based on wealth - as measured in gold, or abstract numbers - it is a value based on the social and environmental worth of a product, service or individual human contribution.

That value will still fluctuate, according the rules of supply and demand, but it will be a value that can be practically applied to realisable benefit or detriment; rather than the meteorological and arcane fluctuations within the pure economic system.

How much a nurse is worth, will depend on how many sick people there are. How much an ecologist or environmental engineer is worth, will depend on how much the environment and ecology is in need of assistance.

The key difference is that value will be based on worth; as opposed to the existing situation on the purely Economic scale, where worth is based on value.

Can you make sense of my ideas here 'Slacks?

Peace