[quote=Traci_Kila_Lords][color=green]Thanks for the replies folks. I was hoping to get more discussion around this. Especially from Foota and Holyman, whose opinions I have grown to respect.[/color][/quote]

Sorry T...

Have been real busy these last two days, and haven't had the time to sit down and compose a legible and coherent post about this latest downward step in the Global Economy.

Not least of all, I was over in the City of London all yesterday evening, trying to soothe the nerves of the other members of my Livery Company, over a glass of port or 5...

And today I'm off with Holywoman to get her belly ultra-sounded, to see how the newest member of the Holy clan is developing.

I would say that I don't actually have an awful lot to add to what I've been writing about the Economy these last couple of years; so it might be worth just going back and reading my previous posts on the inevitable outlook for Global Finance.

There really isn't an awful lot new in the events of the last couple of days: its all just more rubble and debris from the collapsing World Economy. A process that began when Alan Greenspan, former Chairman of the Federal Reserve, lowered Interest Rates in the U.S. to 1% at the beginning of the decade, following the Dot.Com bust and 9/11.

Lowering interest rates below the rate of inflation created a free money supply that enabled the expansion of the biggest real estate bubble in U.S. History; a situation, not coincidentally mirrored in the U.K. as well.

Because there was so much free money and easy credit sloshing around, people who previously would have been denied mortgages were granted them: this the so-called "Sub-Prime" Market.

But that was only the beginning of it. Banks and mortgage lenders then worked out a way of bundling all the loans they made into, essentially, stocks and shares that could be traded. These stocks were called "Mortgage Backed Securities" (MBS) or "Collateralised Debt Obligations" (CDO's), and were sold through brand new, and entirely unregulated financial instruments called "Structured Investment Vehicles" (SIV's).

This practice meant that having once granted a mortgage to an individual with a low credit-rating, the lender would then be able to sell on the loan and move it off their own balance sheet. And because the lender moved loans off their own balance sheets, they were able to lend more and more, without seeming to over-expose their own liquidity.

And then, last year, entirely predictable, many Americans - from the sub-prime sector upwards - began to default on their mortgages, and the whole MBS/CDO edifice came crashing down.

The main impact of the collapse in the MBS/CDO markets, was to expose how over-stretched, in fact, banks and mortgage lenders had become. In the U.K., it led to the first run on a retail bank in more than a century; and Worldwide, created what has become known as the "Credit Crunch".

In other words, the greed that propelled bankers in the U.S. and U.K. to keep lending and lending, convinced that they were insulated from risk by the securitisation of the loans they had already made, has brought the international banking system to the point of complete collapse.

Meanwhile, down on Main Street, the United States has been kept out of a recession that very actually started after the Dot.Com bust, by consumer spending.

Because so many Americans saw the value of their real estate properties sky-rocketing, as a result of easy loans and speculative investment, many were tempted to withdraw some of that ever increasing equity (the difference between the value of their home; and the value of the mortgage against it), and spend it.

Spend quite a lot of it actually... Almost all of it in fact.

So for the last five years, American consumers have been enjoying a high-old life, on credit, spending like there was no tomorrow... But now that real estate prices have plummeted, there's no more value to leech out of the family homestead; and many Americans are finding themselves in the reverse situation, where they actually owe more money on their mortgage, than their home is worth.

And because of the Credit Crunch, there is no more money left to borrow. And because of that, American consumer spending can now no longer keep the United States out of recession.

And because of [b]*THAT*[/b], stock markets around the World are plunging, and it looks like the party is over.

So far, the wisdom and intelligence of the Bush Administration has come up with a couple of plans to respond to the situation.

The first, most laughable and ignorable, is to give each American a cheque for anything between $300 and $800. The idea is that this will kick-start American consumer spending... But it won't. At best, it amounts to a month or two's mortgage repayment; and at worst, it'll be used to reduce the principal amount on a line of credit.

Most likely though, whatever the dollar figure on the cheque, it'll be largely worthless by the time the American consumer receives it; because of the second of the Bush Administration's plans. And that is the shocking and sharp reduction in U.S. interest rates announced yesterday.

The idea of slashing the interest rates (again), is to stave off a complete collapse in the internal U.S. Economy; and I guess particularly to stop millions of heavily-armed Americans marching on Washington D.C. and setting fire to the White House.

See, as I've explained in the past, cutting interest rates only temporarily delays catastrophic internal economic problems for the United States, whilst greatly exacerbating its external problems. Whilst much of what I've written above applies equally to the United Kingdom and other Global economies; there is one situation that is unique to the U.S. Economy...

And that is the role of the U.S. Dollar as the World's Reserve Currency.

I won't bang on about this again, 'cos I've written enough about it in the past. But basically, lowering U.S. interest rates, lowers the value of the Dollar on international currency markets. Other economies have been gradually divesting out of U.S. Dollar holdings anyway for the last year or so; and this latest, panicky reduction in U.S. interest rates is only going to accelerate the Dollar-flight around the World.

All of which is very bad news, if you get paid in U.S. Dollars, and have only U.S. Dollars to spend on manufactured goods and raw commodities from around the World.

Like oil...

Anyhoo, what is very, very important to understand here, is that the entire situation is [b]*ENTIRELY*[/b] the fault of the Bush Administration, and its former Prelate in the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan.

There is nothing happening now that hasn't been fully and clearly predictable for these last six or seven years; and indeed, which hasn't been fully and clearly predicted, by myself amongst many, many others.

The Bush Administration's strategy at the moment, is to try and delay the complete collapse of the U.S. Economy, for one whole year. Enough time for Bush to make good his escape to Uruguay; and for the Grand Ole' Party to be able to plausibly blame the collapse of the U.S. Economy on the incoming Democrat President.

(I know, I know: it won't be at all plausible; but do you think that will matter to the die-hard Brownshirts who just can't, can't, [b]*CAN'T*[/b] take responsibility for causing disasters?)

The facts of the matter are these:

In 2000, the Clinton Administration handed to the Bush Administration a U.S. Economy as healthy and robust as anything seen since the 1950's. There were surpluses across the board, particularly in the Budget and Current Account.

And by 2007, the Bush Administration had turned record surpluses into record deficits, across the board; and increased national debt to an astonishing $9 trillion (about $25,000 owed by each man, woman and child in the United States) actual; and more than $50 trillion in notional, already incurred debt (around $60,000 owed by each American).

And let us be clear, all that money bequeathed to the Bush Administration by the Clinton Administration hasn't just vanished in a puff of smoke.

[b]*"ONLY"*[/b] $1 trillion (rising to $2 trillion in already incurred expenses) has been wasted in Iraq. The rest of it has been refunded, rebated, leeched, broached and stolen from the U.S. Economy and given straight to America's ultra-wealthy and corporate elite, in recognition of and thanks for the, uh, "Support" given by that group of Americans to the Bush Administration, in these difficult times for America...

Now then T, I'm not anticipating you'll hear much from Foota on this topic, because as with so much of what the Bush Administration has been doing to America these last seven years, he has been cheerleading it all along.

He has particularly championed the lack of regulation and oversight in the U.S. financial markets that has allowed the situation America is now in to develop. I guess that, like Bush, he naively assumed that the Sharks on Wall Street had the interests of Wider Society at heart, and would use the almost total lack of regulation and oversight to create a vibrant economy that would benefit all...

Clearly, neither Bush nor Foota have any experience or understanding of the kind of people that work in the culture that exists in the World's financial markets: good guys finish last on Wall Street; only Greed is Good.

The lack of regulation and oversight, specifically granted to Wall Street by the Bush Administration, in exchange for supporting Neo-Conservative Foreign Policy, is what created the entire Sub-Prime/CDO/MBS/Credit-Crunch/Stock-Crash situation the World is now in.

If there is any justice left in America, it must be served on the Bush Administration immediately.

Peace