[quote=BorderWarden][color=green]Hello everyone, A forum fellow from planet Elder Scrolls wishes you all a good day.[/color][/quote]

Greetings and Good Day, from one born under the Sign of the Lady. :)

[quote=BorderWarden][color=green]I believe that this mess is due to fast money and greed making almost a suicide pact between the consumer and lender.

It no doubt started with housing, but here is the deal with laying it all on the irresponsibility of the consumer. You must [u]apply[/u] for loans. People were getting themselves into ARM (ajustable rate mortgages) that they could not afford. They knew it, but so did the lenders.[/color][/quote]

That's pretty much the consensus around here (with the obvious exception of the Three Stooges... See Above^^^).

There was an almost identical situation occurred in Japan at the beginning of the 1990's. Predatory lending practices by banks and mortgage lenders, and an artificially low interest rate (below the rate of inflation), created a massive housing price bubble.

When it finally went pop, it took the Japanese Economy (the World's 2nd largest) into a depression from which it is only now, nearly twenty years later, beginning to recover (and Japanese property prices will never reach the heights they were at before the depression).

The situation is that much more critical with the United States, because the size of the country (and obviously, the amount of property), the size of America's economy, and the role of the U.S. Dollar as the World's Reserve Currency, means that the impending U.S. Depression will have far reaching consequences. Though obviously those whose assets and salaries are denominated in USD's will be hit hardest of all.

The responsibility that the U.S. Government has to take, is failing to step in and take regulatory action several years ago, when it became clear that the newly de-regulated financial markets on Wall Street were creating and expanding more and more risky securities instruments. Hedge funds particularly became a law unto themselves, growing from a little over one trillion dollars in notional value, to more than 35 trillion dollars, immediately prior to the "Credit Crunch" hit.

Yes, those individuals who took the easy money on offer by lenders are equally to blame, as perhaps especially are those who already owned homes, and took advantage of equity release credit, to increase the value of the mortgage on their home, as prices in the property market sky-rocketed.

The key problem for the United States now, is what to do about interest rates.

If it keeps interest rates as they are, or even raises them, the internal economy of the United States will collapse, as more and more people have their homes foreclosed on, and the domestic, non-tradable services sector, which is the only sector with job growth, will go into terminal decline. Since the U.S. has little or no manufacturing base left now (not even Hi-Tech), having outsourced most of it to India and China, unemployment will sky-rocket.

And if the U.S. lowers interest rates - especially if it does it in a panic, as it did this week - then it further weakens the Dollar, threatening its status as the World's Reserve Currency, and the currency in which all oil is traded.

Lowering the value of the Dollar should, in theory, and only in the short term, improve America's Trade Deficit; but since the U.S. no longer makes anything in mainland America that anyone else in the World wants to buy, it is difficult to see the trade situation improving.

All in all, the outlook is pretty bleak. And it isn't a question of us Europeans (I'm British, btw :)) sitting smugly and enjoying the [i]schadenfreude[/i] of America brought low: it truly is a Global Economy these days; and for the last five years, it's pretty much been the American Consumer, and the American Government, burning up those lines of credit, that has kept the Rest of the World out of recession.

[quote=BorderWarden][color=green]I think the US has been unfiscally secure since the tech crash in 2000, Though we have had growth, that growth came at the price of slashing intrest rates, in my opinion too much, after 911. This weakened the dollar and can cause inflation, but the goal was to stimulate spending (and taxes generated from that spending.) Now in this regaurd I believe the government acted in a similiar manner as those nutty lenders trying to get a short time gain for a long term loss. Maybe they were hoping this could help fund the war budget, and it would be a quick affair? I'm just speculating about that though.[/color][/quote]

Oh, you're pretty much on the money right there.

If the U.S. had taken the hit that came with the Dot.Com bust; the situation wouldn't be anywhere near as bleak right now.

And if the Bush Administration hadn't borrowed so heavily, to finance the Iraq War, the U.S. would not now be so heavily indebted to so many foreign creditor nations, to the tune of $9 trillion and rising.

It's really a question now of choosing whether the money the U.S. must borrow internationally, is used to provide welfare to U.S. citizens during this increasingly bad financial storm; or whether it is used to compensate those Wall Street traders and bankers, for all the bad debts they made.

And as well as being morally reprehensible, trying to keep the stock-markets afloat, and bailing out U.S. mortgage defaulters by allowing Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to refinance bad debt, is just throwing good money after bad.

The Bush Administration has just got to bite the bullet, admit they've fucked it, and let the Free Market do what it must: crucify Wall Street.

'Cos the longer it's put off, the worse it'll be when it finally has to happen.

Peace