In Reply to #66

Well, I did kind of touch on alternatives to Capitalism in my previous post to EF and Foota; but since I was running out of time as I wrote it, it might have got a bit garbled. So thanks for giving me the opportunity to revise/recap. :)

First off, let me define what I mean by Capitalism, so you can be sure of what it is I am suggesting is reaching the end of its, uh, "Social Tenure".

Wikipedia defines Capitalism thusly:

Capitalism generally refers to an economic system in which the means of production are all or mostly privately owned and operated for profit, and in which investments, distribution, income, production and pricing of goods and services are determined through the operation of a market economy.

And that's good enough for me!

Capitalism is NOT an immutable facet of Human Society, or social interaction. Rather, it is an abstract system for managing the economic aspects of Human interaction.

As a codified and defined system, it is no more than two or three hundred years old; emerging from and replacing previous systems such as Feudalism and Mercantilism.

And in practice, it is hard (if not, impossible) to identify any instance where a PURE Capitalist system has been implemented and practiced.

Take a look at the current Market woes, and you will see that in the past couple of weeks, the European Central Bank has injected $200billion of tax-payer funds into the financial markets; the Federal Reserve $50 billion; and Asian governments, a further $150billion (and change).

In a PURE Capitalist system, the woes and travails that the World's Economic markets are currently experiencing would be left to play out according to the principle of the "Free Market". But politicians and Central Bankers are well aware of the catastrophic social consequences that would result; so they inject social funds (tax revenues) into the "Market", in order to stave-off collapse.

Mervyn King, the Governor of the Bank of England, is so far the only Central Banker refusing to bail-out the losses incurred by market speculators. This because he believes that encouraging financial market traders to believe that they can not lose - because they will always be bailed out by governments terrified of social and economic collapse - only creates longer-term problems, by encouraging wilder and wilder speculation (gambling).

It is interesting that many on the Right in the United States would scream blue-bloody-murder, if the US Government gave welfare handouts or free healthcare to hard-up Americans; but when it comes to pouring billions of dollars of tax-payer funds into Stock Markets and Currency Exchanges, so that those poor, unfortunate, ULTRA-WEALTHY bankers and traders don't suffer as a result of their bad gambles... Conservatives just take that as a necessary and vital action.

Go figure.

Anyhoo, it is fair to say, that without repeated and often continual government intervention, Capitalism would have collapsed under the weight of the greed it inspires and facilitates, a long time ago.

Throw in trade tariffs and other forms of economic protectionism practiced by any and every Government, and I defy *ANYONE* to point to an example of PURE and FREE Capitalism operating in any credible national economy. Certainly, pure Capitalism does NOT exist in practice, in any of the top 20 World economies.

So what about alternatives to Capitalism then?

Well, the only alternative ever considered or talked about, is Communism, or (more honest) Socialism, but as I said in my previous posts, these "alternatives" have clearly failed - due, IMO, to their reliance on centralisation, and the frailties of those humans tasked with that centralised control - so there's really no point continuing to consider them as alternatives.

What is required is something altogether new. And to consider a completely novel replacement, we need to consider what our requirements for an economic system are.

The most important requirements are, I believe, sustainability and stability, neither of which requirements are fulfilled by Capitalism, as currently practiced.

The Boom/Bust cycles and "Bubbles" of Capitalism are inherently unstable, and lead to significant and ever present social uncertainty and instability. And, of course, as I'm sure you are aware (if you were able to leave your girlfriend alone for 5 minutes during your 'A'-Level studies), Capitalism does not account for sustainability; rather, it is predicated on the notion of infinite supply, as it focuses exclusively on the means and control of production of goods and services.

An ideal economic system will also not stifle creativity and invention, but rather encourage it.

Again, whilst the THEORY of Free Market Capitalism suggests that all you need to get ahead in a Capitalist Economy, is a "Good Idea"; in practice, those who had the "Good Ideas" in the first place, dominate the Economy, and with their massive amounts of capital, create insurmountable barriers to entry, for those individuals and ideas new to the Market.

The result is that far from there being a profusion of entrepreneurs and ideas, all independently and successfully operating within the Market; the Market is in fact, dominated by a handful of ultra-successful and ultra-wealthy players, against whom, no new entrant can compete.

This, in itself, creates yet further instability, with the polarisation of wealth in the hands of the few, and the resultant social imbalance this engenders.

So, to recap, a new Economic System must be: stable; sustainable; and allow for invention and ingenuity.

The fundamental conceit upon which Capitalism is based, is the idea that "Success" is measured in terms of pure wealth: the more cash you possess - the more successful you are.

Capitalist success then is measured in terms of a single bottom line: financial wealth.

But what is "financial wealth"? It is but the possession and accumulation of tokens that signify wealth to your fellow human beings. There is no real connection with the necessities of Human Existence - physical, environmental, or Spiritual. Humans just decided that the person with the most gold, is the most successful human being.

For reasons that continue to elude me...

But if success/value/worth is or can be measured on different metrics, then the principle of using possession of pure capital to measure worth becomes anachronistic; and an economic system obsessed with pure wealth, becomes redundant.

As I mentioned in my previous post, a new buzz-phrase doing the rounds in commercial boardrooms these days, is the so-called "Triple Bottom Line".

In addition to the traditional "Bottom Line" consideration/measure of raw wealth/cash, is now added consideration of Environmental and Social success.

Put simply: the success of a corporation or organisation is no longer entirely dependent on how financially successful it is, but also on its Environmental and Social success.

By Environmental "success", is meant how harmoniously or benevolently a corporation's operations co-exist with the natural environment; and by Social "success", the measure of the positive impact it has upon Human Society as a whole.

So, for example, not so long ago, a corporation like BP or Exxon would have been considered MOST successful, because of its ability to generate massive amounts of raw wealth, almost without effort - almost as though oil grew on trees (or bubbled up through the ground...).

But nowadays, those same, formerly "successful" operations are also measured by the impact they have upon the Environment, and on the societies affected by those operations.

For another example, look at forestry workers. The importance of forest management was something that was previously seen as an exercise in superficial aestheticism; or at best, as something to, uh, "fuel" the timber trade. But nowadays, the ecological and environmental importance of forestry custodianship, is something that is becoming ever more important.

And as a final example, let's look at Public Sector workers in the "Front Line" (so-to-speak). Nurses, fire and rescue workers, and law enforcement officers have always been, by Capitalist standards, "unsuccessful" occupations. In other words, humans who became nurses, fire-fighters or police officers, did so for reasons of social conscience, not from a desire for wealth. But in a Planet with a rapidly expanding population, the need for more and more humans to forgo their own personal desires for a wealthy lifestyle, and commit to an occupation that contributes more directly to the benefit of Society, is growing just as rapidly.

So now, instead of just one measure of success - pure wealth - we have identified two further measures. All that is required now, is a means of linking them together. And actually, the foundations for this have already been mooted, at least as far as Environmental "success" is concerned, in the shape of "Carbon Trading".

To illustrate then, imagine that for the work that you do, you are no longer paid solely in cash-credits, but also in environmental and social "credits".

Let's say that you are a board member of BP or Exxon. At the moment, your pay-slip shows that you earn, let's say, £100k a month. Under the new, parallel Economic system, you will continue to earn that £100k a month, but you can also earn Environmental Credits (€C) and Social Credits ($C). Unfortunately, because you are a board member of BP/Exxon - you don't earn any of those... Sorry!

But now let's say you have a change of heart, and resign your job in Big Oil, and take up work as a Forestry Commission worker in Scotland. Now, your monthly cash credits drop to say £2k a month. But because of the nature of the work you are now doing, you do actually earn €C100k a month; and let's say $C2k a month in Social Credits too.

And if you had taken that job in nursing instead, then your pay-packet would like this:

£1k a month in cash credits; €C5k a month in Environmental credits; and a whopping $C100k a month in Social credits.

Alright you say, so the tree-huggers and the nurses are now getting the recognition they deserve. So what?

Well, here's where it all comes together.

Having got your earnings sorted out, it's now time to look at your expenditure.

You know that Ferrari you've had your eye on? Well, if you want it, it is going to cost you £100k in raw cash. No problem in cash terms, if you keep your job at BP - bit more of a problem if you're working for the Forestry Commission or the NHS.

However, under the new Economic System, that Ferrari also carries two further price-tags: one in €C (Environmental Credits); and the other in $C (Social Credits). Let's say the cost of that new Ferrari in Environmental Credits will be €C100k; and $C20k in Social Credits.

All of a sudden, as a "Big Oil" board-member, that Ferrari is no longer within your grasp, not unless you can raise the Environmental and Social credits you require to purchase and maintain that car.

And here now is the link: there IS (will be) an exchange rate system between the cash, Environmental and Social credits. As a Big Oil executive, you can purchase, for cash, some of the surplus Environmental credits the Forestry Worker has; and some of the surplus Social credits the Nurse earns every month.

Do you get the picture?

Now, that's just one example of a more sophisticated alternative to Capitalism. But actually, I don't see it so much as an alternative, as it is an Evolution of Capitalism. It redefines the nature of wealth, away from an singular obsession with the accumulation of TOKENS of wealth, and towards a more environmentally sustainable and socially inclusive system for managing the Human Economy.

There are other alternatives, one of which is called "Participatory Economics", or PARECON:

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Participatory_economics

This and other alternatives can all be combined to create a more sustainable and equitable Economic System, which won't stifle invention and ingenuity, nor lead to the corruption we have seen in the "Planned" or "Command" Economies of Communism.

The only obstacle, as far as I can tell, to such an Evolution, is that the humans who are in a position to facilitate such a Change, are those who are currently at the top of the Capitalist Economic System. Unfortunately, this small, "elite" group of individuals, are also those who are GUARANTEED to lose out with such a change; so not only are they unlikely to support such a sophistication of our existing system, they are very likely to try and thwart such an Evolution.

It isn't that Humanity is short of better ideas: it is just short on the will to implement them.

Peace