[b]Part Four: Anagnorisis[/b]

So where has all that money disappeared to?

Wait..! What..? A "Recovery" you say?

Really..? Let me see!

The Stock Market indices are up - that's a good sign isn't it?

Housing prices, at least in the major urban centre of the World are up, that's good too isn't it?

Unemployment is down too, apparently, that *HAS* to be good, surely..?

Well that's take a closer look.

The theory behind the Central Banks' decision(s) to "inject liquidity" into the Economy (by giving unimaginable sums of money to banks, in exchange for the toxic garbage they created), is that the "Trickle Down" dynamic much loved by Neo-Liberal Economists, will cause the resurrection and re-ignition of the Economy.

In other words: if you throw loads of money at the Banking System, the banks will make that money available to those hard-pressed businesses currently suffering a customer-drought.

Unfortunately however, whilst that theory was being developed, someone forgot to mention that only the most foolhardy entrepreneur will invest in a new or expanded business operation, when there are no customers who can afford to buy the product of that operation.

Fact is that whilst people are waiting for that money to "Trickle Down", they don't have any spare cash to spend on anything but the absolute necessities of Life. There's not a lot of point making the necessary investment to bring a new consumer product to the market place, if there are few or no consumers with enough spare cash to buy your new product.

So what *CAN* you do with all that cash that the Banking System is only too pleased to pass onto you?

Well, if your bank *IS* running to you with unsolicited offers to lend you cash, chances are you are a large, publicly-quoted company, with your shares trading on the open market. And also, if you are a Chairman or CEO of a publicly-quoted company, chances are that your remuneration package will include an annual bonus payment that is based upon the price that stock in your company is changing hands for.

And so if you've suddenly got a large sum of money to play with, one of the best things you can do for yourself, is to spend that money *BUYING BACK* shares that you had previously offered to the Public. If you buy back shares, this will increase the value of the shares that you don't buy back. And since your bonus is based on the value of those shares that you haven't bought back...

Well, it's all a bit obvious what you're going to do.

Your banker isn't going to mind you doing this, because your bank will be holding a large portion of your stock as collateral against the money it has just loaned you. And if you increase the value of your stock through Share Buy-back, then you increase the value of that collateral that your bank is holding.

And your bank's Central Bank lender doesn't mind the banks doing that, because all these Buy-back Schemes increase the overall value of the Stock Market. And Stock Market indices are traditionally taken as an indicator of overall Economic Health, so any rise in those indices make it looks like the Central Bank's policies are having some effect.

There's no expansion in productivity mind you. It doesn't really have any effect on a Nation's Balance of Trade. And it certainly doesn't reduce unemployment.

But it looks good; to have Stock Market Prices increasing...

Of course, if you aren't a publicly quoted company, but you can still get your hands on the money that the Central Banks are injecting as "liquidity", then the other thing you can do is invest in property. That's always a safe bet: people always need homes.

Well, at a price anyway.

Of course, too much institutional investment in residential housing can obviously create an asset bubble; and it's notoriously difficult to try and predict when they are going to burst. But if you can borrow money at an interest rate lower than the rate of House-price inflation, why not go on a Home-buying spree? It's not as though you've got to live in the fucking hovels: you can rent the fuckers out, 'cos there's a lot more people renting these days, funnily enough...

But what about those Unemployment statistics?

Well, you know, "Unemployment" is just a phrase. It might *SOUND* like it is referring to anyone who hasn't currently got a job, but it isn't quite as straightforward as that.

A lot of people just don't want to work. Alright, some of them may have just given up looking for work, but a lot of them just aren't interested in doing a fair day's work for a fair day's pay: so there's not much point counting them, is there? Don't want to paint a false picture after all.

And obviously there's no point counting those people who *CAN'T* work, through sickness, disability or whatever. That's obvious.

But whilst we're about it, we really should count the number of jobs being done by those hard-working, resourceful and noble individuals who traipse for miles across the World, to bring their skills and talents to contribute to our robust and expanding Economy. Though obviously, whilst we include the number of jobs being done by these people when calculating the number of jobs being done overall, we obviously can't include these illegal, job-stealing criminal immigrants in our population head-count.

So obviously if you want to be picky and look at a figure like the [url=http://research.stlouisfed.org/fred2/series/EMRATIO]Civilian Employment-Population Ratio[/url], it may look as though the true unemployment rate hasn't improved at all since the on-set of the recent Economic Crisis in 2008... If you really clarify exactly what you mean by "Unemployment", the picture is actually looking quite positive..!

But what happens, I hear you ask, if the Central Bank(s) decide to stop injecting all this liquidity into the Banking System?

Well, that's a good question, because actually, that's going to cause more than a few problems.

If the Federal Reserve even hints that it is thinking about no longer giving $85 billion a month to the Banking System and wider Financial Markets, well, that's going to upset a lot of people.

Certain rather important people might begin to think that governments and societies as a whole have lost their Faith in the ability of these people to keep the Wheels of the Economy turning. They might take this as a bit of a slap-in-the-face, after all their hard-work. They might even choose to withhold their expertise from the Economy; and if they choose to do that, well, you might well expect a lot of the Good News to start drying up!

Stop trusting the Financial Markets to wisely spend the money they have previously been entrusted with, and you can expect to see Stock Market prices dropping pretty rapidly for starters.

You might also expect to see a lot of the money that has been generously spent on buoying up property prices start to disappear, and that can only be bad news for those people with very large mortgages on what, some people may consider, are over-priced homes.

And we all know what a drag Negative Equity can be, don't we?

Goodness me, there might even need to be some clarification on the support that certain Economic Sectors provide for the generally accepted definition of the term, "Unemployment". And we're sure nobody wants that to happen, do they?

So, all in all, probably best not to have any talk about any "Drawing Down" of "Quantitative Easing".

Because, you know, don't want to alarm "The Markets", now do we?

http://www.theblaze.com/stories/2013/12/18/fed-announces-it-will-begin-drawdown-of-quantitative-easing/

Ooops!

http://www.foxbusiness.com/markets/2014/01/31/wall-street-tumbles-in-worst-january-since-10/

Isn't this is where we came in?

...

There you go then, that's more than enough work avoidance for one day: less I want to find myself counted outside of the "Labour Participation Rate".

Lot of information to digest. Will see how everyone gets on with it, and then maybe I'll have a think about a [b]"Part 5: Catharsis"[/b]!!

:>_