[quote=Foota21178388][quote=Holyman2012][color=blue]But what [b]I can't understand,[/b] given that acknowledgement, is why you would so automatically dispute what I'm saying.[/color][/quote]

[color=red]Holyman - don't you see this as a failing of your own personal character and ability to persuade people to your line of thinking?  If you were not so bat-shit crazy with your conspiracy mongering and anti-Americanism, I would be more inclined to trust your opinion on some subjects - particularly when you talk about a subject in which you are clearly competent like finance.[/color][/quote]

Heh. Alright then, let's get to the nub of the issue shall we.

[b]*I*[/b] wasn't seeking to persuade YOU of anything Foota. My question was about why you would automatically [b]*DISPUTE*[/b] what I was saying, when you acknowledged a greater subject matter expertise on my part.

But let's look at the bigger picture.

What I - and I know many others around here - would like to do, is have an open, honest and rational dialogue with the many and varied intelligent members of this Community. The purpose of such a dialogue would be to achieve a consensus about what exactly is going on in the World, and where we each stand in relation to that understanding.

Thing is, it is impossible to have such a dialogue, when people like you, SomeGuy and EvilFitch won't let a thread develop, without barging in with your own personal/political agendas.

The three of you aren't interested in discerning or understanding the Truth, as part of a Community exercise: you are intent only on establishing yourselves personally as "The Sole Arbiters of What Is Right and Correct".

All three of you believe that you already have all the "Right" answers; that you have nothing to learn from the other members of this Community; and that you have nothing to give to the Community but condescending correction.

Now whenever I have at any one of you three, you all respond in the same way: you project on to me, all your own worst traits; and try to pass yourselves off as somehow representative of a greater majority of Right-Thinking people in this Community.

In other words, you just can't deal with the fact that I'm addressing each one of the three of you, individually, personally and pointedly; you have to try and imagine that you are representative of a much larger majority of the =PBF= Community - or failing that, the entirety of the United States - your just the only ones that are willing to stand up to me and take me to task.

In this, you display the same pathology as the Bush Administration. You believe that you are "Fighting the Good Fight", sticking up for and defending principles that everyone else would dearly love to defend, if only they had the balls. And in sticking up for and defending these weaker types, you are earning their eternal love and gratitude.

You sincerely believe that you are doing something that is as righteous as it is necessary: correcting the distorted and propagandised view that irresponsible Anti-Americans like myself, continue to pollute the Global Human Consciousness with...

But for your valiant defence against radical Leftists like myself, the World would be in an even worse state than it currently is.

That's about the strength of it, isn't it Foota?

[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]If you could do a better job of tamping down your Bilderberger/Ron Paul conspiracies and tedious anti-Americanism - you would come across as much more credible and objective - IMO.  Until then, I have to assume virtually everything you write has a dishonest tilt or contains your typical hyperbolic rhetoric hoping and praying for the crushing fall of America.[/color][/quote]

One of the problems you have Foota, is that you don't or can't understand what an intellectually self-supporting idea is.

Virtually every idea that you post, requires the acceptance of basic, incontestable assumptions, such as the innate goodness and positive ambitions of the U.S. Government. Or that obviously the Israelis are the victims in the Arab-Israeli Conflict.

My ideas and points of view on the other hand, are for the better part, intellectually self-supporting. They don't require the uncritical acceptance of certain assumptions; or a subjective deference to one party to a conflict or another. And they certainly don't require a personal approval of me.

Oh sure, when I talk Spirituality, or my hopes for a United Earth, maybe then an acceptance of the basic assumption that all Human Beings retain at least a tiny part of the innocence and Love they were born with is neccessary. But it's not very often that I do talk about my Spirituality; and to be honest, it's only really with you that I've ever discussed my ideas about a United Earth Government.

For the most part, when I'm just talking about basic common sense, and obvious cause and effect consequences, well, others don't need to like me personally, to see the validity of my points: those ideas stand on their own merits.

It's like when you accused SteelHed of "Buying into [my] crap". It wouldn't occur to you that two people of very different ideologies and politics, could arrive at the same conclusions independently of each other, and be willing to acknowledge that coincidence.

For you, it's all about "Us and Them", "You're either with us, or against us".

SteelHed and I can argue bitterly about something at one moment, and then wholeheartedly agree with each other at the next.

It's called independent thought, and conviction.

[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]It is so telling when you say you "can't understand".  You just "can't understand" that someone like me would have different views then your radical Counterpunch ideology.[/color][/quote]

Our dialogue in this thread is a good case in point.

SteelHed doesn't need to "buy into" my own personal ideological views, in order to compose a post that broadly (and passionately) agrees with my assessment of a given situation. He thinks for himself, and if he agrees with something I've written, he'll say so; and if he disagrees, he'll also say so. That's called intellectual honesty.

Nothing I've written or described about the current economic situation is politically weighted one way or another. I've merely detailed the causes and precise nature of the mess the World is currently in: I defy you to find any political bias or content in anything I've written.

If there was anything there to find, you would have found it already, and will have already tried to throw it back in my face, as a way of maintaining your entire head-in-the-sand position about the mess, the Government you so unconditionally support, has created.

[quote=Foota21178388][color=red] You just "can't understand" that an American would take exception to a blinkered Brit who thinks virtually every US president in the last 100 years was a war criminal.  You "can't understand" people disagreeing with you, so you have to chalk it up as a person being a victim of "sophisticated propaganda" never allowing the possibility that there may be other legitimate points of view. [/color][/quote]

See, it is in fact YOU who dismisses other peoples' points of views, on the sole basis that it doesn't agree with your own political outlook. And if you took to the time to pay attention to what the vast majority of respondents have to say to you (in public), rather than simply and instinctively dismissing them, you would have understood this by now.

I set such great store in my intellectualism, that were I to dismiss a person's point of view on the basis of their politics or personal beliefs, I'd get pulled up on it immediately. Not just by you and the other Stooges, but by my many friends and associates in this Community, who respect the intellectual rigour I bring to my posts.

And I would welcome such correction: I appreciate their keeping me Honest.

[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]Now you have moved to a new tactic of trying to demonize and group together the few people who take the time to challenge assertions.  How is the 3 Stooges campaign coming by the way?  Your Brownshirt campaign never really got any traction beyond the forum's bigots and anti-Semites who got your back.  Break out the Photoshop and I call Curley!  Also a fan of Shemp.  [/color][/quote]

Yes Foota, I am a Progressive: I like Progress.

I don't like to sit on my arse and imagine the [i]status quo[/i] is acceptable or bearable; and obviously I have no interest in regression.

What my "Three Stooges" campaign recognises, is that you, SomeGuy and EvilFitch are pretty much the last three remaining representatives of a certain kind of forum dialogue that is as old, tired and lame as the Bush Administration.

It has got nothing - and never has had anything - to do with different ideologies or politics. SteelHed, Raider, MadCat, LonelyJew, Vaxx, to name but a few, can hardly be said to share the same ideology or politics with me. And yet in my dialogue with them, it never occurs to any of us to invalidate the other's opinion, just because our personal ideologies are different.

Rather, we battle with the strength of each other's ideas. Sometimes we agree, sometimes we disagree. There is passion and conviction; but there is also respect and recognition.

But you Three Stooges have an altogether different style.

And it really suits the three of you to believe that *I* am the block-headed, dogmatic intransigent, who would never surrender his ideological platform, come Hell or High Water. But the Truth is that your "debating" styles generate more or less the same reaction in just about everyone you engage with; and causes you to think the same of them, as you do of me.

Because for the three of you, it isn't about open and honest debate with your peers; it is about forcing a submission to your totalistic and binary World-views; and the total negation of anything that doesn't comport with what YOU believe to be True.

I at least make an effort to understand why you think the way that you do. And it is this fascination that fuels my tenacity with each one of you, when everyone else has you written off as dead-losses.

Of the three of you, you are at least the most civil, and generally respectful. So I acknowledge that it is a bit of a stretch to include you in such company. But that inclusion is, in itself, an attempt to draw your attention to how marginalised you have become around here, before it's too late.

The other members of this Community will and do accept you, warts and all, just as they accept more or less anyone who isn't a completely insufferable prick, including me!. And you, more than EvilFitch and SomeGuy, exhibit a warmth and Humanity that incites at least a little sympathy in those who observe your behaviour.

I'll say it again Foota: it has nothing to do with your ideology or political views.

It is more or less all to do with how closed your mind is to alternative possibilities, and to other peoples' points of view.

I know, I know: you project that right back at me, right? But the thing is Foota, I, and everyone else who knows you, understands that if it wasn't me that you were taking issue with, you'd find someone else to level exactly the same charges at. That I happen to be your bête noire, is just a matter of coincidence.

[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]Do you even have any close friends or family that don't share your political and ideological views?[/color][/quote]

To the best of my knowledge, very few of my friends or family have [b]*ANY*[/b] political or ideological views. Most of them tend to focus on their own lives, and their own personal challenges, without overly concerning themselves with what others should or need to be doing.

And those of my friends and family that do have strong views, tend to steer clear of engaging me in conversations about them, because they don't always desire a ten-hour long conversation about things that are largely outside of their control or ability to influence.

[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]Do you ever take the time to read Conservative magazines or newspapers to get a different perspective?  I have long suspected that you live in a completely insulated bubble of urban group-think and really have no clue what the rest of the masses believe. [/color][/quote]

Now why Foota, given how much dialogue that you and I have had these last three years; and given the tenacity and vigour with which I repeatedly engage you, would you imagine that I would need to read Conservative magazines or newspapers?

What could I get from Fox News, or FrontPage, or MEMRI, that I couldn't and don't get from you?

What you know to be True, is that I spend a lot of my spare time, engaging with and challenging Conservative points of view on this here Forum. Why would you suspect that I "...live in a completey insulated bubble of urban group-think, and really have no clue what the rest of the masses believe."?

I don't believe "the masses" believe as you do; but I do understand that is what you would like to think. I wonder how much longer you can maintain that delusion?

[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]Sorry Holyman, your style and substance have earned you every last bit of the "instinctive antagonism" that I (and many around here) share about your views.  Just because few people take the time to challenge you publicly, don't think you are in the majority.  I should show you some of my PM's - I think you would be surprised. [/color][/quote]

Not really Foota.

I imagine that if someone has felt the need to PM you, about me, then there's a good chance that they're not going to have anything terribly flattering to say about me.

By contrast, I have received very few PM's about you, in my Time here. And I guess that is because most of what people want to say about you, they say directly to you, in the public domain.

I wonder if you would ever surprise yourself, by actually paying attention to what so many people have said to you in open threads, about your attitude, demeanour and debating style.

For someone who desires to be an active participant in this Community, you display a callous and fragrant disregard for other peoples' opinions of you.

If your respondents are unwilling to address their comments about me, directly to me, then it would be inappropriate of you to share those views for them, at least attributably. Therefore, your mentioning them, is kind of irrelevant, no?

Why do you suppose you needed to allude to those PM's?

You are a different beast to the other two Stooges Foota, but not by much. I could give a fuck about Curly and Mo, they've already demonstrated themselves to be dysfunctional beyond all recovery. But you, despite your instinctive hostility and antagonism, still carry a little respect around here.

The Government you have so ardently supported these last seven years, is on its way out, leaving only an ignominious and bloody stain on the more or less bankrupt History of the United States.

There really is no need for you to go down with that ship.

Really there isn't.

Not around here, leastways.

Peace