Right then...

First things first, a disclaimer:

This post is about Global Economics, and the Human Economic System. Our Economic Systems are designed to be complicated, convoluted and closed to all but the most dedicated financial players. Economic Markets are deliberately maintained and protected by the High Priests and Priestesses of Finance, using arcane and mystical rituals and spells to weave a forbidding air of mystery around the World of Global Finance.

Therefore, to describe the turmoil that is currently taking place in the Global Financial Markets, and to illustrate how this is just the beginning of a VERY MAJOR Economic upheaval, is not something that can be done in a few words.

Or with pictures.

So please, if your only response has to do with the style and/or length of this post, really try to consider how much I'm going to care about the pride you have in your own ignorance.

Shall I get on with it then?

Right, think of the Global Economic System as you would think of the Global Weather System. Human Economics is at least as complex as Earth's Meteorology, and no less prone to erratic fluctuations between benign and catastrophic conditions.

Not one single person or single organisation understands fully and completely how the Global Economic System works. If they did, then they would immediately accrue *ALL* the wealth, and everyone else would be left destitute. Just as we do not have computer systems powerful enough to completely model the Earth's meteorological system; there are no computer systems powerful and connected enough to predict the storms and sunshine in the Human Economic System.

(My credentials for writing this post, by the way, come from the fact that I spent most of the 1990's working for banks such as Goldman Sachs, the Royal Bank of Scotland, and Citibank, in the City of London.)

Now the bulk of this post is going to be about what is happening in the US Economy; it is also going to be rather pessimistic and critical about the US Economy, and how it is managed by the Federal Reserve (a *PRIVATE* Banking Institution). This is not because I like to take any and every opportunity to bash America; it is simply that in an inextricably inter-linked Global Economic System, the greatest and most dominant force in it (currently the Economy of the United States of America) is clearly the most capable of effecting all other forces/Economies.

And make no mistake: what is bad for the Economy of the United States IS bad for the Economy of the Entire Planet.

Okay then...

The United States of America is deep, deep, *DEEP* in the Red.

The Macro-Economic Outlook

At the macro-economic level, the United States is more or less owned by the People's Republic of China.

Just last week, the PRC responded to a ham-fisted attempt by the USG to coerce it into revaluing the Chinese currency - the Yuan - by threatening to bankrupt the United States, by dumping the PRC's dollar reserves.

If the PRC dumped its dollar reserves, it would cause many, if not all other countries to quickly sell theirs too - why hold on to a rapidly depreciating asset? This would precipitate the end of the US Dollar's role as the World's reserve currency, with the likely replacement being the Euro, or a more complex instrument made up of a basket of currencies.

As I think I've explained on this forum before, US Dollars held abroad by foreign banks are like un-cashed cheques: so long as foreigners trade those cheques between themselves, they are never "presented" for honouring by the Federal Reserve. If the World dumped the USD, the USG would be forced to buy them back, just to prevent the catastrophic devaluation of the Dollar within the United States.

Problem there is, the USG can not afford to buy back those dollars: the US has written far more "cheques" than it has funds to honour them with.

But it isn't in China's ideal interest to dump its dollar reserves. Since the Chinese currency is pegged against the USD, a fall in the value of the USD would mean a fall in value of the Chinese Yuan. More practically, the bankruptcy of the United States would mean the bankruptcy of China's primary trade market.

However, as a result of the massive off-shoring to China of the majority of US manufacturing and business base, China doesn't have to sell its own goods to America to still have a market. American companies making goods for Americans, make them in China. So long as Americans need to buy the kinds of things they buy in Wal-Mart and many other retail outlets in the US, American consumers will continue to spend their money, essentially, in China: no exchange rate problems to worry about.

The US wants China to revalue the Yuan, that is, to make the dollar value of the Yuan higher. Instead of a dollar being worth 8 Yuan, for example, Washington wants the dollar to be worth only 5.5 Yuan. Washington thinks that this would cause US exports to China to increase, as they would be cheaper for the Chinese, and for Chinese exports to the US to decline, as they would be more expensive. This would end, Washington thinks, the large trade deficit that the US has with China.

This way of thinking dates from pre-offshoring days. In former times, domestic and foreign-owned companies would compete for one another's markets, and a country with a lower valued currency might gain an advantage.

Today, however, about half of the so-called US imports from China are the offshored production of US companies for their American markets. The US companies produce in China, not because of the exchange rate, but because labor, regulatory, and harassment costs are so much lower in China. Moreover, many US firms have simply moved to China, and the cost of abandoning their new Chinese facilities and moving production back to the US would be very high.

When all these costs are considered, it is unclear how much China would have to revalue its currency in order to cancel its cost advantages and cause US firms to move enough of their production back to America to close the trade gap.

Paul Craig Roberts, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury in the Reagan Administration, 10th August 2007

The outcome of all this is that if the USG sanctions or even keeps threatening to sanction the PRC, China will simply do what it has explained it will do, and dump its US dollar holdings.

This would cause most other Central Banks to do likewise.

This would cause the US dollar to lose its role as the World's reserve currency.

This would cause the end of the monopoly the US dollar currently holds on the international oil market.

This would cause the 50% of the US's oil consumption that it must import, to become completely unaffordable to the United States.

This would cause massive social and political upheaval in the United States, as the entire National Economy goes bust, in the same way that the economies of the former Soviet Union, and Japan, went bust in the early 1990's.

That is the macro-economic outlook for the USD.

But that outlook is not solely dependent on China deciding to consciously and deliberately bankrupt the US: such a course of events must come about with *ANY* significant (further) damage done to the value of the US dollar.

Not good.

And the damage that the PRC could wilfully do to the economy of the nation that is currently threatening it (and many of its trading partners) with sanctions; is dwarfed by the damage that IS being done, by the micro-economic conditions within the United States.

The Micro-Economic Outlook

The micro-economic outlook for the US Economy (and hence: the World Economy) is no better than the macro-economic outlook, and in many, many ways, much worse. Which brings me to the current market turmoil that 'Slacks has highlighted, and which I, uh, "predicted" at the end of last year.

Of course, I say "predicted", but in Truth, I just read the indicators and mapped them objectively to their inevitable outcome. It's not prediction so much as it was simple mathematics.

The problems for the domestic US Economy began after 9/11, when the foundations for a massive housing bubble were laid, by artificially low interest rates set by the Federal Reserve.

(I'll avoid any "Conspiracy" theories here about the Federal Reserve being a privately-owned bank - though it is - rather than a government controlled Central Bank; 'cos that *would* move me into the realms of prediction, and I'd rather stick with maths right now.)

As the US housing bubble inflated off the back of artificially cheap credit, the rise in the personal (paper) equity of new and existing US home-owners, precipitated a massive expansion in the Credit market; people whose homes were now worth much more than their mortgages, refinanced to release that equity, and withdrew that equity from the housing market, to fund lifestyles that their salaries could not have otherwise afforded.

Because of the steep rises in property values, it became viable for credit lenders (in newly un-regulated financial markets) to lend to individuals with poor or non-existent credit-worthiness. If you lend a guy $100,000 to buy a house and he couldn't keep up the repayments, no problem, because by the time you came to repossess, that house would be worth $150,000 or more.

Little or no risk, whilst the housing bubble was on the increase. Credit became something that just about anyone could get.

Simultaneous to this, de-regulation of the financial market created a new instrument called a "CDO", or Collateralised Debt Obligation. This took mortgage and consumer debt, and packaged it into a securitised commodity that could be traded on the World's stock markets.

"Old-fashioned banking, where managers would borrow the money from depositors and lend it on to others judged to be a reasonable credit risk has given way to a system where the debt is widely syndicated and securitised in capital markets. As I have argued, this is in many respects a healthy development which has helped spread credit risk, greatly expanded access to credit and significantly reduced its cost. But it has also led to an apparent breakdown in traditional standards of credit assessment.

If bankers think they can sell the risk of default to someone else, they are much more likely to lend. Increasingly, bankers have made their money not through the old method of charging a rate of interest to lend, but by charging a fee for arranging a lending facility in which the debt is sold on to someone else. A collapse in credit standards was perhaps an inevitable consequence of these innovations.

Jeremy Warner, Financial Editor, The Independent, 18th August 2007

It is that "inevitable" collapse in credit standards that has bought the US (and World) Economy to the brink of collapse.

Trust in credit derivatives such as CDO's has broken down.

Unfortunately, the greatest buyers of CDO's over the last 5 years have been the managers of Hedge Funds.

Hedge Funds are (essentially) the unregulated versions of Pension Funds. Open only to private, "qualified" investors, they are not subject to the same government controls and regulations that public investment funds are. Hedge Funds are the "Private Clubs" of the most elite and professional of investors. Without regulatory interference, they are able to play much faster and looser with their investors money.

Hedge Funds now count for some $1.3 trillion of the money swilling around the World's financial markets. As such, the collapse of a single fund - such as that of the Long-Term Capital Management hedge fund in 1998 - can cause massive shockwaves throughout the Global Economy, which without intervention, can easily destabilise the entire market (the U.S. Federal Reserve bailed out the collapse of LTCM).

Unfortunately, these Hedge Funds (and other securities and derivative funds) have become victims of their own importance.

Think of Hedge Funds as the private, high-stakes gaming tables in a casino. Open only to the richest and most profligate gamblers. You or I can not gain entry to those tables. However, where the Hedge Funds depart from the casino analogy, is that the "Players" are so important, and their failures are able to so disproportionately affect the Global Economy, that the Casino Managers (the World's Central Banks) can not afford to allow these "Big Players" to lose.

So a Hedge Fund "Player" is free to make the most extreme gambles, knowing that if they win, the win BIG; and if they lose, the Central Banks must and do bail them out.

In other words: they CAN'T lose.

Nice for them; not so nice for us down on the crappy tables.

It is this situation that has created the conditions for the current liquidity crisis in the Global Financial Markets. This week alone, Central Banks around the World have poured some $600 billion of pure cash into the markets dominated by these "Players", with the sole purpose of trying to stave off Global Economic Meltdown.

(That $600 billion (and rising) comes from tax-payers, by the way.)

What has precipitated this crisis is simply that the many millions of people in the United States who took advantage of cheap and easy credit, are now defaulting on their repayments.

It begins with the collapse in the "Sub-Prime" credit market that has been in increasing effect in the United States since the beginning of the year.

The "Sub-Prime" credit market lends money to those who in previous economic climates, would never have been able to borrow money, because they were (and are) clearly bad credit risks. Predictably enough, these "Sub-Prime" borrowers are now defaulting on their loans.

In itself, this isn't a huge problem, since the bulk of the credit extended was/is secured against the mortgaged property. Whilst rising repossessions create social problems, the value of properties repossess in a rising and buoyant housing market, has been higher anyway, than the value of the original loan.

But now that property prices are in (accelerating) decline, this is no longer the case: money that was originally lent on the notional value of a property (in the rising property market), now disappears into thin air, as the value of properties plummet.

Unfortunately for those Banks who believed they were passing off or "securitising" the risk of lending, they now realise that these risks have come back to them, through the "back-door", where they have been providing leverage facilities to hedge fund players, who have been using those facilities to - you've guessed it! - buy substantial amounts of CREDIT DERIVATIVES!

In other words:

• Banks have lent money to borrowers with a high risk of defaulting on repayments

• Banks have then sold on the risk to the Financial Markets in the form of CDO's and other Credit derivatives

• Having earned lots of money selling on the credit risk, Banks then lent that money to Hedge Funds, in the shape of leverage facilities

• Hedge Funds then used those leverage facilities to buy... CDO's and other Credit derivatives!

And we now find ourselves in this current mess.

But it is still early days...

The next big (and entirely predictable) shock to hit the Markets will begin next month and continue throughout 2008 and 2009.

This will be when the interest rates on trillions of dollars worth of "ARM's" or Adjustable Rate Mortgages, reset from the initial, introductory (and benevolent) rate - set when interest rates were artificially low - to today's higher interest rates.

Many, many mortgage borrowers have over-extended their selves, because of the artificially low interest rates. As interest rates have been steadily rising, these borrowers have been insulated from these rises, by the fixed introductory rate under which they first took out their mortgages. As the period for these introductory rates ends, they are faced with the harsh realities of higher interest.

And simply, the vast majority of ARM borrowers will not be able to keep up their repayments.

This will lead to more repossessions, which will in turn, lead to an even steeper decline in property prices. And this in itself means that even having one's home repossessed, will not be sufficient to wipe out the mortgage debt. And this will lead to widespread personal bankruptcies.

Looking at the situation like that, it would seem that the "sensible" thing to do would be for the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates.

And here we find the link between the micro-economic and macro-economic outlooks.

The declining value of the dollar, threatens to precipitate a complete meltdown in the US dollar economy. Even if China (or Japan, or South Korea, or the European Central Bank, or the Bank of England) does not decide to arbitrarily dump dollars for political reasons, the continuing decline in the value of the dollar will soon require foreign banks to sell off their continually depreciating dollars, as those dollars turn from assets, to liabilities.

The ONLY way the Federal Reserve can prevent this, is by... RAISING INTEREST RATES.

And this has been the policy of the Federal Reserve for the last 18 months or so.

But of course, as the Federal Reserve raises interest rates to protect the value of the USD in foreign exchanges; it does great harm to the viability of the domestic American property and mortgage market.

Damned if they do; damned if they don't.

This story really has no possible happy ending: only the choice between a dreadful, or catastrophic ending.

Yesterday, in a volte-face in policy that can not be interpreted in any other way but as panic, the Federal Reserve DID, in effect, lower interest rates.

Announcing a series of "innovative" moves that amount to a dramatic policy U-turn, the Federal Reserves' Open Market Committee announced:

"Financial market conditions have deteriorated and tighter credit conditions and increased uncertainty have the potential to restrain economic growth going forward. In these circumstances, although recent data suggest that the economy has continued to expand at a moderate pace, the committee judges that the downside risks to growth have increased appreciably."

In English:

Our current policy is clearly not working, so we're going to reverse it; because things are getting REAL scary...

What the Federal Reserve actually did yesterday, was lower the rate at which banks can borrow money from the Reserve on a short-term basis. This was taken by traders as a sign that the Reserve's policy of raising interest rates will be reversed at the mid-September OMC meeting. This brought a measure of confidence back into the jittery US stock markets, and stocks rallied on the news.

However, it can only be a short-term measure.

The very crisis in liquidity that the Global Economy finds itself in now, is the DIRECT RESULT of artificially low interest rates. Lowering interest rates in response to the painful market corrections now gathering pace, can only stave off the inevitable.

And of course, all the while that US interest rates are lowering, so too is the value of the US dollar.

And THAT brings us back to the much greater macro-economic peril faced by the World's (currently) strongest economy.

What is looming on the horizon is not a period of recession, but a full-blown Global Economic Depression.

And I believe that the social and political effects of that Depression, could very well herald the final bankruptcy of the ideology of Capitalism.

Something that I would say is as overdue as it is a vital necessity for the survival of Humanity.

Peace