In Reply To #24

I used to love getting papers back like that. I still failed them, but I used to love getting them. Teachers just love this kind of stuff; I used to gleefully swap such howlers in the staff room.

It's a shame isn't it. I agree with you and Drew, I'd have passed most of those responses...

IF I WAS GODDAMMED ALLOWED TO BY THE GODDAMMED GOVERNMENT, GODDAM! (Aliteration 2/10)

What really gets my goat is that educational curricula (Latin conjugation 7/10) are set by governments / the State, for the sole purpose of measuring the progress of... Government!

We take children of the same age, and expect them to be of the same ability, and insist that they learn things to a homogenous standard. And the sole purpose of doing that is to establish metrics for government to crow or make excuses about their successes / failures in centralised education delivery (weak proposition 3/10).

Somewhere in the middle of all this bureaucracy, there are some bright, dynamic, imaginative children (alright, and some as thick as two short planks (essential realism in generalisation 8/10), wondering what the fuck is going on, and asking why all these adults are getting so upset at their inability to name the capital of Surinam (it's Paramaribo) or induce the value of the missing angle in an isosceles triangle.

Of ALL services that should and must be provided by Society, the one that is MOST in need of decentralised control is Education.

Give the funds and freedom to teachers to teach children as individuals (unclear use of preposition, WHO are the individuals, the teachers, the children or both? 5/10, rather than processing and packaging them as uniform components for an employment system that insists on uniform academic qualification (run on sentence, consider revising. 4/10).

Who knows, do that and maybe job interviews will become more about the individual, than about how many tests they manage to pass on their way up the Ziggurat.

C+, could do better. Seem me after class.

Peace