[quote=Mullet post_id=22051 time=1730582046 user_id=58]

[media]https://youtu.be/dP5imeWMDVg?si=x4IBwdfbQr-StNB5[/media]

[/quote]

Right, firstly then, @Mullet:

When I am fully governing this particular planet we are all currently on, what would it take for me to entice you to be the Grand Poobah of the Interior?

That is the Portfolio primarily responsible for the cognitive development of individual human beings. You will be the Final Determiner (FD) of all matters relating to how humans being Communicate Effectively with one another.

I don't mean you will decide everything (related to Effective Communication), that is not the function of an FD. An FD's function is to decide things when (and only when) nobody else is able to decide; and *THEY* decide to refer the decision to you.

Obviously your Colleague Engagement Process will - like mine always has - favour those few (no more than 12 at most) Individuals who you will grow to rely on to:

* Make all of their decisions themselves

* Never, ever refer a decision to you (you can decide if that is implied by the first Reliance and is necessary or not)

* Competently, confidently and co-actively deliver all of your policy goals, without you having to do much more than simply articulate those goals, and occasionally raise an eyebrow at anyone who might ever think they Understand more than you do.

There will also be an excellent personal healthcare package for you.

Right... The reason for this offer is that video at the top of this post; which I had to evacuate from the Randomness Thread, and respond to in the Datastream it deserves to be in!

How... I mean *HOW* can we get Everyone who ever uses Internet facilities to Express their Feelings and discuss their ideas,  to watch that video!?

And not just watch it, but properly study it! And by "study", I mean really listen to what these two guys are saying; and reflect on any of our own behaviour that may be being described.

For anyone who has yet to watch it, the index of topics is as follows:

[i]0:00 - Introduction

0:15 - What are Logical Fallacies

0:40 - Strawman Fallacy

1:37 - False Cause Fallacy

2:15 - Appeal to Emotion Fallacy

2:43 - Slippery Slope Fallacy

3:16 - Ad Hominem Fallacy

3:53 - Tu Quoque

4:42 - Loaded Question Fallacy

5:08 - Burden of Proof Fallacy

5:39 - Bandwagon Fallacy

6:09 - Appeal to Authority Fallacy

6:36 - Black or White Fallacy

6:59 - Question Begging Fallacy

7:37 - Fallacy Fallacy[/i]

Every single topic is described clearly, objectively, and logically.

The animation is just something to rest your eyes on, as the two guys (who I intuit probably have "faces for radio") recite their magnificently well-written scripts. Clearly a Home-Cooked production, with nothing to distract from what these guys are helping us to understand.

I know we've all read/seen/heard expressions of these themes for as long as we've all been trying to figure out how to use the Internet to communicate and cooperate effectively; but there is something just so uniquely clear about how these two individuals have laid everything out.

The single greatest challenge facing Humanity today is its inability to Effectively Communicate and Cooperate.

And since Effective Communication is a necessary precursor for Effective Cooperation, it does really all come down to how effectively we are all communicating.

When we are in dialogue with another human being, more frequently than not, there is an adversarial element in the speech we use.

If we are in dialogue with our Emotional Partners, then the adversarial dynamic generally pervades every topic. Every conversation from, whose turn it is to take out the waste, to What Is the Meaning and Purpose of Life, is conducted over Emotional Battlelines.

And that means that the words we use in those (increasingly) intense dialogues with our Emotional Partners, are primarily aimed at "scoring points" (for ourselves), rather than being used to further Mutual Understanding through Effective Communication and Cooperation.

Our social cues for how to conduct ourselves in dialogue are taken from our families, friends, colleagues and other peers (which is just how it must always be); but those cues have to compete with the cues that (too) many of us take from the very, very many Information Sources in our lives.

For example, how the worst politicians behave. Or how Emotional disputes between partners, family members and colleagues are portrayed on "Soap Operas" and "Reality [sic] Television" programmes. And now, of course, the types of behaviour that have seriously polluted the Internet on so-called "Social [sic] Media" platforms.

All (and many, many more) of these cues have conditioned us to see Communication between human beings as an exercise in competition, rather than in cooperation.

And when we find ourselves in any dialogue we believe to require competitiveness rather than cooperation, we compulsively, habitually, and frequently subconsciously use one or more of the 13 logical fallacies described in this video.

Dialogue between human beings now, more than ever before, needs to focus on Effective Communication.

Human beings require the ability to Effectively Communicate now, because we desperately require the ability to Effectively Cooperate.

Now.

Honestly Mullet (Grand Poobah-Elect), how can we create an "Effective Communications" Foundation/Green Belt course out of that eight-and-a-half minute video..?!

Great, great find.

Whatever else: keep 'em comin'!