Well, you know, it's a funny thing, but given that the Economy is Number One on the list of American voters concerns, neither candidate is making much air-time available for their Economic Policies.

This maybe because Senator McCain admitted a couple of years ago that he knew "...a lot less about economics than [he does] about military and foreign policy issues"; he acknowledged "I still need to be educated".

And Senator Obama is more concerned with creating an ideological movement that is heavy on style, and short on substance. And nothing is going to turn the Slacker Generation off Obamania faster than a turgid speech on Economics.

Again, this is all very surprising, given that the United States is bankrupt, the U.S. Dollar is about to lose its position as the World's Reserve Currency and the currency in which oil is traded internationally, and inflation and interest rates are on the rise. But then, given that there is very little that the current or future U.S. Governments can do to intervene in or prevent the current Economic collapse of America, maybe that's why they're leaving the subject off the campaign trail...

Nevertheless, I have been able to gather some information that might answer your query Poony.

McCain wants to continue the Bush Administration's policies of reducing oversight of the financial markets and deregulating just about every aspect of the American Economy. Like any good Conservative, he also promises to curtail government spending and eliminate earmarks, but only in non-Defence spending.

McCain would continue the Iraq War for the foreseeable future, at a cost of $200 billion a year, and would also invest heavily in anti-missile defence. Whilst that isn't strictly an aspect of his economic policy, since he's been fairly quiet about whatever his economic policy might be, "Defence" spending has to be considered something of a plank to it. That the U.S. Government is spending $2 billion a day to make interest payments on the debt it owes to other nations, should make McCain consider very carefully how affordable a continuation of the Iraq Occupation really is.

Another McCain policy that isn't directly to monetary or fiscal, is his proposal to expand private health insurance by developing the private health insurance market. Not sure how he intends to develop a private market [b]*AND*[/b] without spending government funds, but perhaps we'll never find out. :)

More directly related to Economic policy, McCain would extend the Bush tax cuts and repeal the Alternative Minimum Tax; as well as lowering the top corporate tax rate from 35% to 25%.

This is all a bit surprising, given the state of the U.S. Economy and its deficits; but maybe that's because Senator McCain is still waiting for his Economics Education. :)

Barack Obama is also happy to see U.S. Economic Deficits increase, and has promised an expensive tax cut for virtually every American except for the rich (anyone with an income over $50,000). Like McCain, Senator Obama would also extend most of the Bush tax cuts (the 10% bracket, $1,000 per child credit, and marriage penalty relief). He wants to pay for this by taxing the rich more, by raising the top marginal tax rate and repealing Bush's capital gains, dividends and estates tax cuts.

He also wants to impose a very significant Social Security payroll tax on Americans with an income over $250,000.

Obama would like to increase the size of the Army and Marines, and would also have to pay for the removal of U.S. combat troops in Iraq, if he follows through on his claim to want to remove them in 16 months. He proposes spending increases for infrastructure investment, "Green" jobs, fighting global disease, and increasing veterans' benefits.

Both Senators support  Carbon Cap-and-Trade climate change proposals, which would increase carbon costs for consumers - especially electricity usage. And there is a quite a hefty price tag for implementing that too.

http://energy.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=Hearings.Hearing&Hearing_ID=e4189e08-a755-e064-6d2a-4acdad9a890e

All in all though, both candidates have so far steered pretty well clear of the Economy on their campaign trails. Like I said, this is very surprising given the current state of the U.S. Economy; but maybe not so surprising, given how blissfully unaware most Americans are that their Economy, and Economic standing in the World, is well and truly fucked.

Peace