[quote=spootbat][color=red]You know what, Holyman?  It really beats me how a SCIENTIFIC issue became an issue of "the survival of the human race" as you call it. Studying the climate is SCIENCE, so let the scientific process continue.  In science, the debate never ends.  You just can't proclaim "the debate is over!" and then move on from there.  Clearly you were likely a sociology major or something like that in college, since you obviously know nothing about how science works and how the scientific community shares and expands upon knowledge.[/color][/quote]

To be fair though Spoot, I don't think I did declare "the debate is over!".

And, uh, I didn't go to college or university: I have no greater qualification than what you'd know as High School Diplomas in Maths, English and History. Oh! And Theatre Studies. :)

No, afraid I went straight from school into a very brief stint in the British Army; and ever since I've been working, and getting stuff done.

Right, now that's out of the way, allow me to explain what I was trying to say.

The "Debate", such as it is, is about who is "Right", and who is "Wrong", on Climate Change. Is it caused by Human activities; or is it a part of the Natural Order of Things.

Now setting aside the false premise for the "Debate" that these two conditions must be mutually exclusive, the points I made were purely practical, not rhetorical or political.

You express confusion about the way a "SCIENTIFIC" issue became an issue of "the survival of the human race". I hope you will allow me to try and clear up that confusion.

This particular scientific issue is about the observable changes taking place within the World's Environment.

It is not disputed that if these changes continue as projected, the Earth will eventually lose its ability to sustain Human Life.

That is why it is an issue of the survival of the Human Race, as well as it being a scientific issue.

What [b]*IS*[/b] in dispute, is whether or not the changes that the Earth's Climate is undergoing, is a consequence of Human activities.

And so embroiled are humans, in the dispute over whether or not they are at fault for the changes taking place to the Earth's Environment, that the fact that the actual changes are taking place already, is ignored.

Now, when you've been working as long as I have, and when you've attended as many fucking meetings as I have; you'll understand full well that in those meetings, most humans put the bulk of their energy into trying to avoid taking the blame for anything.

Avoiding the blame for something that is at fault, is more important to Humans than fixing whatever it is that is at fault.

My point is, that debating whether or not Humans are to blame for the changes the Earth's Climate is undergoing is a, umm, colossal waste of Energy, and Time (like most corporate meetings actually).

Is the Earth's Climate changing in such a way as to degrade or destroy the ability of the Planet to support Human Life?

The answer to that question must be an unequivocal "Yes!".

There is no doubt that the Earth's Climate is heating up. And there is no doubt that if it continues to heat-up, rising sea-levels will cause widespread destruction and misery in Human Society.

And it follows logically from this understanding that Humanity must adapt, to Survive - that is THE basic Law of Nature, after all.

But instead of putting our collective Energy, intelligence and ingenuity in preparing to adapt to Climatic Change; we are spending our remaining Time, arguing about whether or not current Human activities are to blame for the way the Climate is changing.

Now a further question we can ask is: is Human activity having [b]*ANY*[/b] impact or influence on the way that the Earth's Climate is changing?

And the answer to that is a more equivocal, "In all likelihood, yes."

Regardless of what we studied in our academic experience, a basic understanding of Physics and Chemistry tells us that for every action, there is a reaction. When humans put chemicals into their Environment, it is impossible for the Environment to have no reaction at all to the introduction of those chemicals. Basic physical laws dictate that every cause creates an effect.

Now what humans appear to have got hung up on, is the degree to which human activities are negatively affecting the capacity of the Earth's Environment to support Human Life.

It may be that the Earth's natural climatic cycles are doing all the work of degrading the Environment, and that Human activities are merely a drop in the ocean by comparison.

But until humans can completely rule out the effects of their activities on the Environment, they can't begin to address how they can respond to the negative changes that are undoubtedly taking place within their Environment.

And that was the first point I made Spoot.

The second point I made, was that common sense dictates that it is better to do what we can, and later find out that such precautionary measures were unnecessary; than do nothing, and find out later that we really should have acted sooner.

The third and incidental point I made, was that as a Species, humans live in a very wasteful, inefficient and careless (care-free?) way. Since less waste and greater efficiency would bring its own benefits to Society, regardless of whether or not it reverses the negative changes currently affecting our Environment, then surely those steps should be taken anyway.

I don't consider the position I've outlined above to by scientific, sociological, artistic, ideological or moralistic: I consider it merely practical common sense.

Peace