In Reply To #30

Who is arguing about consciously exterminating species?  I am certainly not.  You are dumbing down the argument and avoiding the broader and more complex question.

All I am saying is that the main goal of environmental policies (implemented by Man) should be the protection of the human species.

Isn't the whole global warming hysteria about saving our beautiful coastlines from being flooded?  Or is it for the protection of the spotted owl? I assume that you don't think killing a house fly is the equivalent of killing a human being?  What gave you the moral set to make that distinction?

I think what my, uh, colleague is trying to say here, is that there is no practical alternative to appealing to human beings' collective self-interest, if we truly desire to save the Planet.

Not everyone feels the same way about small furry animals: to some, they are pets; to others, they are food. To elevate the preservation of their existence to some collective moral duty, isn't going to necessarily work with everyone, at least not for long.

So there you have your first big obstacle to saving the Planet: most people are only interested in saving it for themselves.

However, that has changed recently, in that more and more evidence is coming to light that the negative effects of Humanity's mean lifestyle is having a more immediate and personal impact on individuals.

At the most trivial level, because Environmentalism has become a cause celebre, it is influencing consumer spending patterns; which links fear about the Environment to Economies (just when you really need a strong Economy). And more importantly, because actual climatic changes taking place right now - natural or man-made - are already influencing our daily lives.

Urgent action is required to address the stability of our Planet's Environment. It isn't that we can't conclusively prove that Humanity's activities are negatively impacting Earth's Ecology; it is that we can not rule it out.

We know that driving SUV's might negatively impact the Environment; we also know that it might not. We know that there are certain major influences on the Environment that are outside our ability to comprehend, much less control.

What we can't do at the moment, is rule out the possibility that our lifestyles are contributing negatively to the decline of Earth's Environment.

In order to do that, we have to alter our lifestyles in such a way as to reduce any unnecessary negative impact on our Environment; try to mitigate the negative impact of those unavoidable  aspects of our lifestyles; and clean-up as much of the negative impact we have already had on the Environment - you know, before we knew better...

What is important throughout is that we keep in mind that we are, ultimately, doing all this because of self-interest.

We can't possibly get all of Humanity behind the idea that we are doing this for some obscure species of primate in Madagascar; or even all species of primates, throughout the World. There is only one species of primate that Humanity would be willing to adjust its collective lifestyles to save: human beings.

And really, you know, if we weren't doing it for ourselves, what would really be the point of doing it?

The answer though, does lie ultimately with the self-interests of Nature's Experiment with Higher Intelligence: Humanity.

One way or another, Mother Nature/God/Complete-Random-Chance has determined that Humanity would exhibit a higher order of conscious self-awareness than other Terrestrial life-forms. Possessing that higher order of consciousness, homo sapiens has been able to impact upon the Global Environment in a way that no other species has ever had the conscious ability to do, individually or collectively.

Our power to impact on the Environment is something we can consciously utilise as human beings; and our choices determine whether that impact is a positive or negative one.

For the greater part of Human History, our ability to impact on the Environment was limited either by are or intensity. Only in the last couple of centuries of Industrialism have our collective activities really begun to have an intense impact; and only in the last century has the area become: The Entire Planet.

We have to remove as much of Humanity's unnecessary and avoidable, negative impact on the Environment; in order to assess the precise nature of the consequences for our species, for Environmental changes cosmically outside of our control.

But we can not and should not try to create a Society that isn't ultimately built for the benefit and purpose of Humanity.

I think the trick is to see that creating a Society that can and does exist in Harmony with the Natural Environment, is precisely to the benefit and purpose of Humanity - AND the Natural Environment.

Peace