I fear we may be talking at crossed purposes here Spootbat.

I'll try and explain my position as briefly and succinctly as possible:

Current scientific evidence points towards the fact that the Earth's Climate is changing in such a way that it may prove much more difficult - perhaps impossible - to sustain Human Life in the near or distant future.

Scientists do not appear to be able to agree what impact - if any - human activities are having on the current changes taking place to the Earth's Climate.

But a basic and elementary understanding of the principles of Science tells us that it is highly improbable that Human activities are having no impact whatsoever on the changes now taking place in the Earth's Climate.

There may well be factors affecting the Earth's Climate, but the simple Truth at the moment is, we just don't know - or at least, can't agree as a Society based on Science, what those factors may be.

But if we can identify human activities that in all probability [b]*DO*[/b] have a negative impact upon the Earth's ability to sustain Human Life; then we should at least take the precautionary step of minimising those activities as far as possible.

As you point out in your post above, the Truth is that we just don't know the full picture: Climatology is a hazy science at best, and not yet fully understood. But given that, doesn't it make sense that we should err on the side of caution?

You say that it is not Science's place to create moral restrictions for Human Society, or even place social prohibitions on Human Activities. And for the large part, I agree with you; as I imagine most scientists would.

But Human Society [b]*HAS*[/b] put its Faith in Science these last 500 years or so, to guide its development and sophistication. The advances made by biological sciences have taught us how to live more cleanly, and avoid many of the plagues and blights that have regularly brought suffering to a great many humans.

Science's role in Society is not to mandate Human Behaviour; but it [b]*IS*[/b] meant to inform and guide Human Social Evolution.

If the consensus of the scientific community is that a Climate Change is upon us that may threaten the extinction of Human Life on Earth; surely we are fools not to pay attention to what the scientists are telling us?

And I'm not saying that there is a scientific consensus that Human-created Climate Change is upon us (though I believe there may be just that); I'm stating that the scientific consensus is that there [b]*IS*[/b] Climate Change underway. And surely it behoves Humans as a Society, to pay attention to what their scientists are telling them, and begin to take necessary steps to respond to those warnings.

Otherwise, what purpose does Science serve for Humanity, if not to keep it safe and aid its development?

But all of the above aside Spoot, there is a Simple Truth that as a Society, Humans are very wasteful, very inefficient, and very careless with their Environment. Much of the opposition to the "Science" that points to the Human Influence on Climatic Change, is based on the financial cost of the steps necessary to avert or mitigate those effects. But the whole focus of business development has always been to reduce costs (and increase profits) by operating more efficiently and less wastefully.

Therefore I see a happy confluence between those motivated by a desire for financial comfort, and those motivated by Environmental comfort.

The Truth is simply that the steps suggested by some scientists as necessary to avoid or avert the negative effects of Climate Change; comport entirely with the common financial sense of reducing waste and inefficiency.

If Humans can turn a financial profit whilst also potentially saving their Planet: why would they not do that?

Peace