In Reply To #21

Whilst personally I've always had a great affinity for Americans, it would be somewhat foolish to say that my view is shared by all.  I tend to look back upon history to our common values and goals.

I'm not sure it is so easy to talk about values and goals that Europeans have in common with Americans.

Fact of the matter is - and this is all too frequently glossed over - the U.S. IS a European colony. America's cultural and social values and goals can most idiosyncratically be described as Neo-European at best.

There's a peculiar thing about the English language, and the connection it creates between the U.K. and the U.S. British people tend to assume that they know how to speak English better than Americans, at least those Brits from England do. But actually, like all colonies, the language at source - in this case, in Europe - moved on, while the language in the colonies stayed the same.

We tend to think of English being spoken correctly, in a Received Pronunciation, or R.P. accent (a.k.a. "BBC English"); but only because of social conditioning during the birth of mass communication, when R.P. English was developed as an artificial standard. As for all the other British-English dialects, they evolve and develop according to ethnic and cultural influences being introduced, something that like rain, happens on a more or less continuous basis in the British Isles.

No, if you want to hear the kind of English that Shakespeare will have heard, tinted Orange with a dose of a Dutch accent, then Jamestown, Va., in the U.S. is the place to visit. And as you spread out through the white Eastern and Southern sea-board communities, you encounter other more successful attempts at preserving the structure, syntax and occasionally accents of English.

A better example is Canadian French compared with the French language spoken in France. Canadian French got kind of stuck around the 16th and 17th Century, and is virtually incomprehensible to European French speakers.

I imagine something similar exists between European and South-American Spanish speakers; and between the Portuguese and Brazilians.

And it's kind of a bit like that with American "culture".

American social culture is very bellicose. Offence is taken very quickly, at the slightest provocation, and responded to with overwhelming force. Nothing new about that, the Saxons and the Danes mastered that sort of behaviour more than 1,000 years ago.

American social culture is very concerned with rank, authority and power. Material wealth translates into moral worth, and success is its own reward: all very Latin and very Jewish culture traditions.

The differences between European Culture and East Asian Culture are very marked indeed; so marked it is practically impossible to describe the differences with anything other than a few facile comparisons.

The difference between Indian Culture and Sub-Saharan African Culture is also very clear and obvious.

There is little or no discernible difference between European and Australian Cultures; and certainly neither English-speaking Europeans or Australians pretend there is one. New Zealand gets slightly higher marks for distinctiveness, because alone of all the five great Anglophone Colonies in the World today, New Zealanders have made and continue to make exemplary efforts to integrate with the indigenous population. South Africa, of course, scores a zero on that front, and remains an unsettled hybrid culture of English, Dutch and Zulu influences.

Canadians are happy to keep the link open to their European Heritage, and like Australians, don't object too strongly to having the Queen of Great Britain's head appear on their money.

But the United States of America...

Well, what can you say?

I think that the U.S. is built on an entire sacred Native American burial ground, of some 40 million dead natives, probably doesn't get U.S. culture off to a good start. That on such ground, it tries to weave a Cultural Record that denies both European and Native American heritage, is what gives Americans such difficulty with their own identity.

Also, I think geographically, the United States of America came together too quickly, too easily.

From the Thirteen Colonies at the end of the 18th Century, to 49 States from Alaska through California to Louisiana by the end of the 19th Century, was just too much, too quickly. How do you get a sense of cultural or social identity, when everyone is still settling in to their far-flung homes?

No, apart from the obvious caricatures, it is hard to identify any distinct cultural identity that is uniquely or originally American. They are mostly fourth or fifth generation European migrants, or descended from slaves.

American Culture, such as it is, is like the languages spoken in North America: it is a snap-shot of what European Culture was like, a century or so ago.

Uptight, militaristic, morally indignant, callous, over-confident and grossly incompetent, demanding of deference and obedience; in short: the very model of the Victorian Father.

Been there, done that, bought the top hat.

European culture moves on; demographics change; integration and assimilation increase; cultures are mixed, meshed and rejuvenated. Time marches on; ideas change; minds meet: Worlds Collide.

Who can say whether the Future European will be easily identified and recognised by their racial appearance? Who can say whether Future European Cultures will embrace different lifestyles and attitudes to being, than they do now?

Who indeed?

But that IS kind of the Point of It All... To keep changing, keep growing, keep evolving.

But some of those people stuck out in that New Europe on the other side of the Atlantic, still think they can freeze the World, with them on Top of It; or at least slow it down to a pace they can control.

Bless 'em.

Peace