In Reply To #82

Personally, like the overwhelming majority of Americans, I am deeply grateful for Britain's contribution to this war; but the war is not just an Anglo-American war. Nor is it over and you Euros are needed for more than just lip service and passing cynical judgment. This war calls for all of Europe to be involved, as well as many other regions too; and most especially, the people of the Middle East need us to be working together. So far, European participation has been as piss-poor as it was when you were needed to quell the conflict in Bosnia and Kosovo, and its high time you all started pulling your equal share of the load.

Clay Moore, I think this ^^^ is the most interesting part of a very interesting, sincere and eloquent post.

I agree with you.

Right now, Europeans ARE needed in Iraq, in both their military and civilian capacities.

New Zealanders, South Africans and Canadians are needed too. So too are South Americans, Africans and Indians; Asians too - especially Asians from South-East Asian Muslim countries.

In fact, right now, pretty much the only people who AREN'T needed in Iraq, - the only people who CAN'T help in Iraq - are Americans, the British, Aussies and Israelis.

Iraq is at a critical state: without an effective military presence in Iraq, the crisis in Iraq would quickly spread to other countries in the Middle East.

Sunni  Saudi Arabia can not tolerate a Shia Iraq on its borders, especially one that would be unified in all but name with Shia Iran. Shia insurgents in Iraq are already exciting Shia insurgents in Saudi Arabia; the ruthless Saudi internal security services are barely able to contain it.

Pakistan is just a few more suicide bombs and U.S. attacks away from becoming what *EVERYONE* fears Iran COULD become: a nuclear-armed haven for Islamist Terrorists.

Nuclear-armed India will *NOT* tolerate the kind of anarchy that currently exists in Afghanistan and Iraq, to spread to Pakistan: no matter HOW MUCH the Bush Administration may bribe them with nuclear technology.

And outsourcing contracts.

And the massive Humanitarian Crisis currently under way in Iraq - with more than 4 million Iraqis displaced and homeless - will spread to Syria and Lebanon.

Without a military presence capable of effecting and maintaining sufficient Peace and stability in Iraq, to facilitate the construction, by Iraqis, of their own institutions for social governance: the whole Region will go up in flames; and the resulting damage to Western Economies will devastate Western Lifestyles for decades to come.

The reason for this State of Affairs is the 2003 Invasion of Iraq by the United States of America.

If the U.S. had not invaded Iraq in 2003, the World would not have been brought to this current State of Affairs.

It is difficult to say what else might have happened, if the U.S. had NOT invaded Iraq in 2003; but it is hard to think of anything happening that could be much worse than bringing the Whole World to the point of social and material ruin.

Saddam Hussein probably would have got a bit fatter, I suppose.

And the Iraqi People would have had to endure a while longer.

I wonder, if asked looking back, whether the average Iraqi would have chosen five or ten more years under Saddam Hussein, rather than these five (or ten more) years that have followed the U.S. Invasion?

Still, it's always easier with hindsight, isn't it?

Thing is, since the U.S. and U.K. are legitimately seen by Iraqis and well, anyone with a bit of common sense, as the cause of all their current problems: the presence of U.S. and U.K. troops is now CREATING MORE PROBLEMS THAN IT IS RESOLVING (which is something the new British Prime Minister is politically able to allow the Ministry of Defence to acknowledge).

It is NOT something that the Bush Administration or Republican Party is politically able, or can afford to acknowledge.

And because of that, the Iraqi Occupation must remain in the hands of the Bush Administration.

As far as I can tell Clay Moore, you are completely correct: Iraq needs a multi-national Peacekeeping and Rebuilding Force. Unfortunately, the only positive contribution that the United States and United Kingdom can make to that Force from this point onwards: is to pay for it all.

You're also correct that the U.S. can not withdraw its military forces from Iraq, without leaving behind a raging conflict that would engulf the region, and probably the World. The U.S. can only HAND OVER responsibility for security, Peace and re-construction, to a multi-national force whose legitimacy a sufficiently inclusive majority of Iraqi Society will accept.

Such a Force will have to be at least five times the size of the current U.S. and U.K. Force deployment in Iraq: probably larger. It will require the deployment and integration of the forces of many different nations. That in itself will require the creation and establishment of an international military logistics capability so effective and reliable, that it is unlikely to be dismantled, as and when Iraq emerges as a stable, viable and independent State.

And since the Americans and the British will be paying for it all, there shouldn't be any problems with funding.  :)

$1 Billion a day for an indeterminate period of time would fund the VERY BEST technology, equipment and logistics that money and NGO's can buy.

And as a bonus, that'll be LESS THAN HALF THE PRICE the American Taxpayer are currently paying for the Bush Administration's futile efforts in Iraq!

A "Win-Win" as they say! :)

The only alternative to the above scenario is apparently: to continue to allow the Bush Administration to continue to spend $2.5 billion a day of U.S. tax-payers' money, trying to put right, what they put wrong.

...

Thing is, at the Time of the Invasion of Iraq, nearly ALL of America's traditional foreign policy partners in Europe and the World, told the U.S. what a bad idea invading Iraq would be. What is currently going on in Iraq was entirely and precisely predicted by anyone and Everyone not subject to Bush Administration propaganda.

But when anyone tried to tell you what would happen, you had been shown how to throw 9/11 in their faces, as a way of ending rational discussion.

The patriotic Emotions and sense of wounded national pride you felt about the Crimes against Humanity committed on 11th September 2001, were hi-jacked by the Bush Administration, and channelled into supporting an attack on a country that had *NOTHING* to do with the 9/11 attacks; and *EVERYTHING* to do with Neo-Conservative's agenda.

You were taught to express the Emotions that 9/11 created in you, as anger and hostility towards Iraq and the Arab Middle East (though not Saudi Arabia; never Saudi Arabia...).

The complexities and nuances of Middle Eastern tribal, religious, social and cultural dynamics, were distilled down into a simplified personification of all that was bad about the Arab Middle East: Saddam Hussein.

The 9/11 attacks on the United States, were orchestrated and carried out by an extremist Islamist group, headed by Osama bin Laden, called Al Qaeda.

Saddam Hussein was a secular Arab Nationalist; whose previous U.S.-backed and supported rise to dictatorial power was precisely the kind of Arab cultural weakness that Osama bin Laden despised in his pronouncements.

Saddam Hussein and Iraq had nothing to do with the 9/11 attacks on America.

At the time of the 9/11 attacks, Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda were based in Afghanistan; a nation ruled by an ultra-orthodox Islamic sect called the Taleban.

When the United States announced its intention, one month after 9/11, to attack Afghanistan, more or less the entire World queued up and signed up to participate in this U.S. led retaliatory strike against Al Qaeda, and the government that sheltered the group.

The United States had absolutely no shortage of willing partners, when it came to attacking Afghanistan.

Following the U.S. and British led attack on Afghanistan, the Bush Administration had no difficulty drafting and agreeing United Nations Security Council Resolution 1386; which was unanimously passed on 20 December 2001.

In summary of that:

• Following the 9/11 attacks on America; the United States attacked Afghanistan, with full and unequivocal International support

•Following a swift and successful attack; the United Nations formed and authorised the International Security Assistance Force; a NATO-led force that would be responsible for creating stability and security, and facilitating reconstruction of Afghan Society

•Having eliminated the immediately identifiable threat to its National Security, the U.S. Government returned to consideration of its mid to long term strategic objectives.

In summary of that!

Having carried out a precise and devastating strike against Afghanistan - a strike so completely successful it would have made any terrorist-harbouring tin-pot government quake - the U.S. handed over major peace-keeping and rebuilding duties to an international, albeit NATO-led force.

At New Year's Eve on 2001, America still carried the respect of the World; and it was felt that balance had been restored to the Universe.

Immediate danger neutralised: Time for Americans to grieve, then.

...

But you weren't allowed to grieve.

Anger is not True Grief.

The Anger we experience following sudden and tragic death, is a natural defence mechanism. It gives us the Emotional strength we may need, to eliminate or escape from any still-immediate lethal threat to ourselves.

Even the anger we feel at less sudden and less tragic deaths, is anger directed at God/The Universe/The Order of Things; because we know that at the very least, Time will kill us all in the end, and we are powerless to prevent that.

But when that anger passes, because of the recognition of its effectiveness at eliminating immediate threats, or the futility of being angry at Time...

THEN is the Time to Grieve.

It's a personal thing, True Grief, not really a social thing, despite the various ceremonies our cultures have chosen for us.

America's Grief since 9/11, has been anything but private. Indeed, as we speak, it has brought the World once more, to the uncharted and difficult-to-navigate, Edges of Chaos.

Because Americans' grief was hi-jacked by the individuals within the Bush Administration.

People that chose to use sophisticated advertising and marketing techniques, as well as the very best technology that psychological operations has to offer, to maintain Americans' grief as anger, and channel it into a bloodthirsty military strike on Iraq.

Your grief was (has been?) kept at the Anger stage, by maintaining the sense that you were still, personally, in very great physical and immediate danger. You couldn't stop being Angry for an instant, since it might dull your rational acuity: just when you needed it at its sharpest.

Eventually, your Anger and your Fear was ratcheted up to such a level by the Bush Administration's manipulation of the mass media, that a self-sustaining chain reaction was established; self-sustained solely by an individual's frightened and wilful disconnection from rational thought.

Do Not Think: Attack.

Look What They Did To You.

Look What They Might STILL Do To You.

Do Not Think: Attack.

And when your Friends tried to tell you:

Hey, relax, calm down, take it easy: you are in shock.

The anger and fear being generated in you by your government is (has been) so great that not only did you spurn and ignore offers of rational assistance: you insulted those offering such consideration.

When we are in a state of shock, when we are frightened and angry, words of restraint from our friends ARE assistance; when our friends counsel caution, and explain to us the inevitable consequences of our venting our anger in the way we intend: they really ARE trying to help.

When Old Friends in Europe, and throughout the World, told the U.S. that what would happen if it invaded as the Bush Administration intended to, would be precisely what HAS happened in Iraq since the Invasion: kind words of caution were met with suspicion and hostility.

Only those who agreed without question, with the Bush Administration's intended objectives (whatever they were at any given moment) in Iraq, were considered "Friends".

Anybody who counselled restraint or consideration, was vilified as, well: NOT FRIGHTENED ENOUGH!

It was never a question of IF those words of advice or counsel would be rejected: only a question of HOW.

Sooner or later, it became impossible to hold a rational discussion on the need for, or success of the Invasion and Occupation of Iraq. Everything quickly came down an argument between those who believed Bush Administration propaganda (howsoever delivered...); and those who...

*DON'T believe Bush Administration propaganda.* :)

And fortunately for those Americans FINALLY waking up to the True Nightmare of the Bush Administration: in no longer being susceptible to Bush Administration propaganda, they join an elite and exclusive club that includes, well, pretty much Everyone Anywhere Else In The World, outside of the United States of America - and an increasing number of people within the United States as well.

Now if you *ARE* being honest with your Self Clay Moore, you can't rationally dispute anything I've written.

Remember, it's based on my independent thought; the conclusions I have drawn from personal observation and consideration of pretty much the same information available to you.

It isn't MEANT to be a Statement of Fact.

Nor is it meant to be a solicitation or demand to look at things the way that *I* have just looked at them.

It is just an Invitation to look at Things in a DIFFERENT way to the way you've been more or less compelled to do for too long now.

If you reject my take on things, fair enough: no offence intended - none taken.

But please, please, *PLEASE* understand that when I attack the views you stick to about the Bush Administration, and its conduct in Iraq: I am *NOT* attacking you personally; or trying to cause you offence either.

I am just trying to explain to you that the version of events that the Bush Administration has presented you with, and continues to present you with: is a crock of horseshit.

Whilst even horseshit has value as a manure, for *NEXT* Year's Harvest: it would be nice every once in a while to plant something that would continue to provide all year round.

(But no Human Empire has managed that yet, has it? Shame...)

Point of the matter is that the version of current events you continue to believe to be True; continues to be controlled by and managed to support the views of: the Bush Administration.

In its remaining sixteen months in office, the personal interests of the members of the Bush Administration still serving, will SHARPLY diverge from the National Interests of the United States of America, and its People.

I suspect - though don't quote me on this - that the "Plans to Invade Iran" are probably just a smoke-screen: something to divert the dialogue in the Internet chat-rooms and forums, where personal political opinions are forged and tested these days.

Whatever...

The personal priority you are meant to apply to consideration of an Invasion of Iran, just needs to be higher than the priority you are meant to apply to considering whether your government is a corrupt gang of criminals. (Can criminals BE corrupt? Or is it implied?)

That will suffice.

Who cares if Good Ole Boy Bush has to cut a few corners to hunt down those wily A-rabs? A little cuff here, a bit of excessive force there, well: IT GETS THE JOB DONE!

Who wants to be drowned in paper-work? Stifled by bureaucracy? Gagged by "Political Correctness"?

No, if *YOU* were President, YOU'd cut through all the horseshit but fast; and use the Power you have at your disposal, to GET THE JOB DONE!

You'd kick whosever ass needed kicking; and you wouldn't take no "Principled Fucking Objections" from pansy Europeans!

What do Europeans know about War? Where were they when all the heavy-lifting needed doing in World War Two?!? Why is it always the U.S. covering Europe's Ass?

No, *YOU* would do exactly what Bush is doing:

GETTING THE JOB DONE!

Except...

He isn't.

Getting "The Job" done I mean.

Not if "The Job" is: "Building a stable and Peaceful Western-style democracy in Iraq".

No, no, far from it.

What "He" has actually done, is create a Hell on Earth, in Iraq.

"He", the Boy Bush - the Man Who'd Do What *YOU* Would Do - has achieved precisely the *OPPOSITE* of what he claims "The Job" to be.

"He" has punished the Iraqi People FAR MORE severely than Saddam Hussein ever did, could or would have. See, even Saddam wasn't SO evil that he didn't recognise the strategic value of having an Actual Functioning and Viable Nation State, to exercise his dictatorial power at, and with.

The mess created in Iraq by the Bush Administration will take decades to resolve and remedy. And that process can only begin when the Bush Administration acknowledges the failure and illegitimacy of its Mission.

For domestic political reasons, the Bush Administration can not do this.

And so the World once more teeters uncertainly on the Edge of Chaos.

The question is: can the World safely wait out the remaining term of the Bush Administration, as so many Americans appear content to do?

Peace