Meh.

If a week is a long time in politics, then 5 fucking years is a geological era...

This is all about fracturing Right-Wing politics, which is as much the order of the day in the UK as it is in Israel and the U.S. these days.

Right-Wing politics is, by definition, reactionary rather than progressive. What passes for ideological principle is actually just self-protectionism. And exploiting voters sense of fear and need for protection is what Right-Wing demagogues excel at.

Unfortunately (for the Right-Wing; but fortunately for the rest of us), these demagogues can't agree on the colour of shit. They are more prone to schism and factionalism than even the most rabid of religions.

Just as the American Tea Party is dividing and nullifying the Right Wing in the U.S.; and Ultra-Nationalists (Ultra-Zionists) have managed to blind-side Netanyahu in Israel: so too has David Cameron been gazumped by Nigel Farage and the UK Independence Party (UKIP).

In a fragile coalition with the decidedly pro-European Liberal Democrats, Cameron is feeling completely threatened by the emergence of UKIP and the certain knowledge that its rise will further dilute the Right-Wing (Reactionary) vote at the next General Election (c. 2015).

So he's got to throw the Eurosceptic wing of the Conservative Party a bone, and at the same time appear to be giving confused British Right-Wingers a reason to stick with the Tories. This because like all modern political entities, the Conservatives are obliged to operate Centrist Policies in order to get as big a share of the "Undecided" vote as possible.

"Undecideds" occupy the space between the Right- and Left-Wing ideologies. They are turned off by policies that are too obviously (or too militantly) Right- or Left-Wing. So any Party or candidate that wants to win over the Undecided Vote, is obliged to present and operate a Centrist Manifesto.

But this just pisses off the Reactionary Dinosaurs (and Deranged Progressives) at the more extreme ends of the political spectrum. And they become easy prey for increasingly radicalised fringe movements like the Tea Party in the U.S., Yisrael Beitenu in Palestine/Israel, and UKIP in Great Britain.

The promise by Cameron of a 2017 Referendum is basically a not-so-coded message:

[i]"Sure, right, listen: you argumentative fuckers makes sure I keep my job as Prime Minister in 2015, and you can have your fucking referendum (which you will lose, btw). Split the Right-Wing vote at that Election however, and the next government will be a Labour one (or even Labour/Liberal Democrat Coalition), and you'll have no fucking chance of getting a referendum."[/i]

All the noise from the French and Germans (and the U.S.) about Cameron's "threat", is just going through the motions. They understand it's all about Domestic Politics, and know full well that the corporate sponsors of any political party that could feasibly form a UK government would never allow the UK to exit the EU trading bloc.

It's pointless, petty, ridiculous, shitty, crappy politicking.

Meanwhile: the World continues to burn.

:>_