In Reply To #90

It is epic shit, h-man and fish mixing it up, longest posts around.

I say so far, Fish 1, H-man 0 (roughly)

Sheer bellicosity, but, with accuracy, on the part of fish gives him the edge over Holyboy's usual pretentious, excessive, pompous condescension.

Win goes to Evil fish, for now

Hmm, it's a challenge isn't it? How would one go about beating EvilFitch at his own game?

Mind you, why would anyone want to? He's not a particularly nice person, and getting involved in any of his sordid activities is going to leave one feeling the need for a long shower.

I suppose it must come down to exactly whatever it is that is supposed to be "The Prize", in EvilFitch's mind. What is it he feels he and I are competing for?

What might I suppose EvilFitch's motivations are?

Well, no-one actually likes him, and he's got no actual friends around here (one wonders why he cut his sabbatical short). Presumably, his, uh, "contributions" to the forum are intended to gain him some popularity. His constant and interminable attempts to establish a sense of superiority over pretty much anyone and everyone, also suggests that he feels that over-bearing domination and compulsive obnoxiousness are just the kind of qualities the rest of us would like to see more of, on these =PBF= forums.

Is it any wonder that I remain his Nemesis?

Universally adored: effortlessly eloquent and charming; genuinely interested in what other people have to say; unassuming, gentle, appreciated, admired, respected; and of course, at Peace with my Self.

Is it any wonder I bring out the worst in him? :)

Now then, before I get all Tolstoy on EvilFitch's ass, I just wanted to lodge a couple of appeals over your scoring Vax:

1)

I think that the big problem is that we are culturally educated to side with one party to a conflict, or another.

You think wrong.  There are plenty of instances where I, and many, many others, will side with the side that is in the RIGHT rather than someone we know such as America or Britain or, as you, imply, "fellow white people." I was educated to side with the truth regardless of the color of the person speaking said truth.  Fact is worth more to me than your opinion.

Now how is that not a point to me referee?!?

The whole basis of my argument (the clue that it was the whole basis, is that I began with it), was that picking sides in a Conflict makes us unable to provide a fair resolution to that Conflict. And then I stated that the "big problem" underlying that, is that we are culturally educated to side with one party or another.

Now, because EvilFitch's purpose in his competition is to prove himself Right and me Wrong, rather than just discuss the opposing merits of a situation in attempt to establish the Truth, he compulsively begins with:

"You think wrong."

(A powerful and useful Statement; if he but knew who he was saying it to :))

Then he goes on to support and validate my statement, by telling me how he and "many, many others..." will side.

Where he gets confused, is in thinking that I'm talking about picking the "Right" side to a Conflict, even though picking that "Right" side may contradict his nationalist and social tendencies.

Furthermore, he's goes on to base his entire, uh, "counter-argument" on this misconception.

It's not the hare stopping for a nap while the tortoise ambles slowly by, so much as it is the hare taking a wrong turn right at the beginning of the race, and charging off miles away from the actual racetrack.

Even the HolyTortoise gets a chance to have a nap when racing the EvilHare. :)

In support of my appeal, Referee Vax, I submit the following response from Foota:

In Reply To #80

Hamas has made it clear that there can be no peace until they destroy Israel.  Hamas is the democratic voice of the Palestinian people.

Yup - I picked sides a long time ago.

See, Foota knew what I was getting at.

He didn't attempt to deny the general truism I'd pointed out: that we are all culturally inclined to pick sides in a Conflict. Instead, he just unabashedly announced which side he supports, and then gave one example of the kind of reasons he supports Israel in this Conflict.

Fair enough.

Foota & I can and do argue long and hard about the intricate complexities of the problems in the Middle East. We continually prod and poke at each other's ideological foundations, to see if we can illustrate a weak-spot to the other. But that wasn't what I was doing in my post, and Foota knew it.

See, unlike EvilFitch, who just boasts about being able to do it, Foota can understand how and why other people feel the way they do. He is able to board their train-of-thought, and ride with them while discussing the merits of our respective ideological transports.

And equally, Foota presents his own train-of-thought in a sympathetic and engaging way; so that even those who don't agree with his politics, can still understand the basis of his ideas.

EvilFitch, on the other hand, is engaged in some ghastly attempt to exchange mental fluids with people who really do not invite his attention.

The worst thing, is that when someone grabs hold of his E-peen and threatens to crush it; he just seems to become more excited and erect.

Anyhoo... I reckon that's a pretty solid appeal.

Whaddya reckon Ref? :)

Peace

(PS. It wouldn't be fair for me to just beat EvilFitch at my Game; so I will "EvilFish" his response to me. But you'll have to give me a moment to go an put on a full-body prophylactic and get the disinfectant on stand-by.)