No, the real question is:

Why do you bully and intimidate other posters, at all?

And I'm not asking for the "rational" answer; I'm asking for an Emotional answer.

I know that you THINK that there is a requirement for you to "Set the Record Straight", police ignorance, and attack anyone on the slightest provocation.

But why do you FEEL the need to try and present yourself as some kind of arbiter of Truth?

Is it because your father was/is an LEO?

Do you discuss Emotional management with your therapist?

Why do you feel that attacking anyone for any reason, is something that you must do?

You can't have it both ways.

Either you ARE =PBF='s foremost expert on all matters Historical, lexical and political, or you're not.

If you are, then there is no other description for the way that you behave towards others you consider have lesser knowledge, than bullying.

And, if you are not =PBF='s resident expert, then you're still a bully, but you have to throw hypocritical, ignorant, shallow and pedantic in there as adjectives as well.

You acknowledge quite candidly that you are compelled to correct everything that you identify as erroneous or inconsistent. But when you over-personalise your disagreements with others, and use emotional invective to try and batter your "opponent" into submission: you put yourself wholly at odds with what the rest of the =PBF= Community is trying to achieve.

And you generate precisely the opposite reaction amongst the Community, than the one you are trying to achieve.

I must also ask: are you bi-polar? Have you been diagnosed with any psychological disorders?

(I can assure you I will treat all PM dialogue between us in the strictest confidence: you are not obliged to reciprocate in order to assure that.)

I'm asking, because you display a particular pathology common to personality disorders: you project your own worst behaviours onto other people, in order to try and address that behaviour, without having to acknowledge it as your own.

Quote: "Just because you say it is True, doesn't make it so."

(Or words to that effect.)

Do you see why that is a projected statement?

I *KNOW* that what I say is never going to be the Absolute Truth. And I know that when a point or conclusion emerges from my stream of consciousness, it isn't intended to be received as the "Absolute and Authoritative Truth".

I use logic and reason to lead those who read my posts, through my thinking, so that they can understand how *I* arrive at the conclusions I do.

You and I could have a philosophical debate about the Nature of Truth; but if it were a competitive debate, you'd lose before you begin, because you have wedded your personality to the principle of Absolute Truth - when such an abstract concept can not and does not exist.

Absolute Truth exists in potential, but not in actuality.

Simply: you can not measure the Truth, without affecting the Truth you are measuring.

Even if you don't agree with that statement, you must acknowledge that the imagined pursuit or custodianship of "The Absolute Truth" is a sophomoric exercise in a forum such as =PBF=.

I'm sure you understand that even if "The Absolute Truth" was definable and capable of expression, there is no authority that would be accepted as final, within the =PBF= Community. Therefore, railing about the sanctity of "Truth" - as you see it - becomes an entirely academic exercise that can only result in your being increasingly ostracised by the rest of the Community.

Just because you say something is True, doesn't make it so.

And basing your shallow and pedantic, hostile and antagonistic responses on the idea that you alone are the final arbiter of Truth, just makes you appear absurd and unwelcome.

You mentioned in your last post in-thread, our good friend Foota. I can assure you that there is no comparison between Paul and I, and you and I. He and I are good friends - we only narrowly missed a rendezvous with our respective partners in Amsterdam last year, because I couldn't get a childminder for the weekend.

Foota & I - and the wider =PBF= Community - recognise the positive dynamic that he and I create: we're bookends for the broad spectrum of political views within =PBF=.

It may have taken us a little while to find a balance to the dynamic we create - but hey, that's how you go about making friends - but we got there in the end. Now he and I can discuss issues about which we are totally at odds, in a respectful, robust and READABLE way.

Understand that it isn't you I dislike EvilFish.

It is your behaviour towards other posters that provokes my ire.

You may not consider yourself to be a bully. Your friends at =PBF= may not consider you to be a bully. But many others in the Community do consider you to be a bully. And I guarantee you that any objective reader of your posts would conclude that you are a bully.

Hell, I expect that if YOU were able to read your posts objectively, YOU would consider the author a bully.

Understand also, that I wouldn't be wasting my time writing what I've just written, if I didn't feel that you and I could achieve something positive and constructive together.

It might go against your natural inclinations, but try to appreciate what the general mood is within the Community; and try to adjust accordingly.

Peace,

H.