In Reply To #154

No, no, no, you've missed the point again EvilFitch. AND you have managed to validate and support the point I was making in the process, again.

Once more, boyo, simply saying something does not make it so.

Did you not say:  "What is also very clear EvilFitch, is that the focus of our dialogue now has lost all relevance to this or any other Public Forum."

Am I to take it that you are NOT saying that this little discussion has lost all relevance with the forum?  Is that true?  If not then I suggest you learn to read what you write before you post before posting.

No, I AM saying that this "discussion" has lost all relevance to this forum: because, our "discussion" is just an argument between two individuals, carried out and presented in such impenetrable prose, that it can have no relevance or interest to anyone else.

Sometimes, inter-personal conflict can be entertaining to watch, but only provided the jabs and digs are brief and pointed. No-one is really interested in which one of the two of us "triumphs"; no-one expects either of us to depart, or concede "defeat"; and no-one is at all interested in line-by-line tit-for-tats that demonstrate nothing of any relevance to anyone else.

That is what I mean when I say that our dialogue has lost all relevance to this, or any other Public Forum.

No-one reads your sophomoric, line-by-line prevarications; no-one reads your specious arguments; no-one is paying you any attention.

In Reply To #84

Great, well thought out post!

There goes the argument that "no-one" reads what I write because Alaskan is certainly some-one.

Ha-ha-ha!

Oh yes, Alaskan "Check Your PM's" Viking is certainly someone...

He's your bitch, isn't he? ;-)

Why do you bother posting EvilFitch?

That one is easy:  PRIDE.

Stupid people have tons of it and are more than ready to make themselves look silly while exposing their ignorance in the defense of their pride.

So the reason you bother posting EvilFitch, is to ensure that people around here you consider "stupid", can't post the way they choose, without getting assaulted by you.

It's interesting how you think that's a good thing, and I think it's purposeless, deconstructive and the actions of a bully. Don't you think?

I post because I enjoy debating ideas with my friends - especially those friends whose political views differ completely from mine own.

Internet discourse, as with pen palls, is fine and dandy but the practice certainly does not have the full advantage found in personal contact with other human beings.

As much as I enjoy discussing issues on a computer I would much rather do so in person.

There's a coincidence.

I'd much rather you go and discuss your issues in person with someone too. :)

But in denigrating Internet discourse - at least, demoting it - doesn't that make your presence and behaviour here all the more inexplicable?

I'd much rather discuss social and political issues in a written medium. I'd much rather be able to take my time thinking about what someone (not you though, obviously) has written; and consider my response to them. I'd much rather discuss contentious and difficult issues with people who are, for all intents and purposes, anonymous; and without worry that disagreements will turn to antagonism and violence.

For example, how long do you really think that you and I could discuss things in person, before you lost your temper and I'd have to break your arm to calm you down?

See, that's why I'm here; that's why I write and post the things I do. You seem to say that you put all the time and energy you do into your posts, even though you don't consider it worthwhile, or as beneficial as personal contact with other human beings.

Seems incongruous, no?

And I post because I enjoy being a part of a solid community of like-minded individuals.

"Birds of a feather will flock together as will pigs and swine."

Why do you bother participating with this =PBF= forum?

"Like-minded" doesn't mean we think the same things, or even the same way: it means that our motivations are the same.

Actually, a strict interpretation of the definition follows:

"having a similar or identical opinion, disposition, etc.: a like-minded friend."

It's like, I could just let this argument run on auto-pilot! :)

I'll give you one thing EvilFitch: I don't think I've ever met anyone with such an ability to out-argue their self. :)

It means that there is a core of individuals here at =PBF=, who are trying to do something constructive and positive with the time we spend on the Net.

So, you consider the presentation of lies and half truths as an attempt to "do something constructive" here?

No.

I consider that creating an environment where individuals (not you EvilFitch) can speak freely and happily - and express their selves and their current level of understanding about issues, without being bullied and harassed, demeaned and denigrated - to be a constructive and positive thing to do with my time on the Net.

Understand EvilFitch, I could care less what you think of me, or even how you behave towards me. If this dialogue was just about you and I, then I would have lost interest a long time ago.

No, what this is about is that you do what you are currently doing to me, with just about everyone who dares to venture an opinion around here, on just about anything.

This =PBF= forum is a breath of fresh air on the Internet. It is a funny, interesting, occasionally dramatic, and above all entertaining place to hang out on the 'Net.

The Moderators do an excellent job of moderating, using only a light touch to do so. No moderation at all on an Internet forum produces chaos - un-moderated sites are full of people like you. And too much moderation on an Internet forum stifles free expression and association.

So the guys here - especially Spandex - are doing a fine balancing act, and producing one of the most entertaining and inviting forums on the 'Net.

Now you're clever enough to never breach the few explicit rules this forum has, but that doesn't hide the fact that pretty much all you bring to =PBF=, is bitterness and rancour. Your behaviour - particularly your bullying of young and new members - is completely at odds with the desires of the forum moderators, and the majority of its participants.

You know, the last time I had a bitter and over-personalised argument on these forums, it was with, uh, you (and Alaskan...Whatever), and that was what, six months ago?

When was the last time before this that YOU had a bitter and over-personalised argument with someone? How many bitter and over-personalised arguments have you had with other members, in your time here?

Clearly, the breaks you are taking aren't long enough to be doing you any good.

What is it that made you decide to come back, after your break?

When work calls me out of the state I follow and I tend to prefer spending my spare time, of which I have far more when I am here, out with friends in REAL COMPANY, rather than sitting in a hotel posting here.

Shame, you will have missed Superslack's great posts from Israel while he was there.

So, there are no human beings on this forum who you consider "REAL COMPANY" then?

Again: WHY ARE YOU HERE?

What is it that you bring to the =PBF= Party?

Ignorance.

Détente at last! :)

'Cos, you know, far as I can tell, you don't bring anything but rancour, contempt, hostility, divisiveness and negativity.

Post the unblemished truth of reality, how it is, and you won't incur any contempt, hostility, divisiveness, or negativity from my end.

No EvilFitch, that isn't how it works.

I, and anyone else who is a member of =PBF= can and should post whatever they want, whenever they want, however they want, with whatever errors and omissions may be present.

And they should be able to do it without having to fear your cowardly and bullying attacks.

You may spot errors or inconsistencies, but basic human civility should ensure that if you must bring those errors to light, you do so in a respectful and engaging way.

However you think you might be able to justify it, nobody else wants contempt, hostility, divisiveness and negativity from you.

Peace