In Reply To #119

Well clearly EvilFitch, there was never any possibility that I would respond to another of your turgid inquisitions; so I hope you've been managing your expectations correctly.

What is also very clearly EvilFitch, is that the focus of our dialogue now has lost all relevance to this or any other Public Forum. There simply is no purpose or point to continuing a dialogue in the fashion you always pursue around here.

I did read the first part of your post, more or less thoroughly, but skimmed the rest with increasing speed as it descended. The last few thousand words, I completely ignored.

Still, I managed to pick out a few gems from that first part.

I think they speak for themselves. Well, for you actually.

What, exactly, constitutes an "actual friend" on an internet forum?

(If you have to ask, you won't understand the answer. :))

Now, because EvilFitch's purpose in his competition is to prove himself Right and me Wrong,

How could I be competing to prove myself "RIGHT" when I responding to something YOU had written?My purpose was to show that you were WRONG. This has nothing to do with ME and your constant referral to a competition shows that YOU are the one here to PROVE somebody wrong rather than know the TRUTH of the matter.

I disagree.The essence of debate is to understand why somebody else feels the way that they do. The practice of debate is explaining to another, how and why you think the way you do.

Debate is a chess game; not a marriage counseling session. Feeling is arbitrary and can change with the wind regardless of your state of mind or being. That is the "why."

Where he gets confused, is in thinking that I'm talking about picking the "Right" side to a Conflict, even though picking that "Right" side may contradict his nationalist and social tendencies.

The only confusion is with you boyo because my entire point was that we are and should be taught to select the RIGHT SIDE.Your point was that we are taught to just pick sides. That is DIFFERENT than being taught to pick the CORRECT SIDE.

EvilFitch, on the other hand, is engaged in some ghastly attempt to exchange mental fluids with people who really do not invite his attention.

For starters, I would never attempt to exchange "mental fluids" with the likes of you: your cranium certainly contains far more liquid than mine could hold (it is currently occupied with a SOLID mass).Secondly, this is a PUBLIC FORUM so everything you post is an open invitation to comment.

The worst thing, is that when someone grabs hold of his E-peen and threatens to crush it; he just seems to become more excited and erect.

So you are admitting to taking hold of my "E-peen" and threatening it?No, this is not some joke referring to sexuality of any nature.However, it is telling that you are admitting to entering these forums and these conversations with the express intent of grabbing people's "E-peens" and threatening them.

No.

It is me telling Vax that your intentions when entering these forums, is to thrust your E-peen in others' E-faces, especially when they don't want you to.

I don't enter these forums to grab other people's E-peens, EvilFitch. But I will crush any E-peen that is repeatedly thrust in my face.

I know some deadly moves too; moves so deadly that whilst the audience sees them straight away, it can take three or four days before the owner of the E-peen begins to understand the damage done.

And that's when the pain really starts. :)

In one post you claim you cannot make it further with out stopping and in the next (conveniently after other posters have chimed in regarding your ignorance and abject failure to post accuracies) you return to do what not a page before you claimed you could not.

Not quite.

I claimed that I tried, and then could not.

After I'd finished responding to Vax, as an afterthought and since I had begun to enjoy myself, I thought: WTH, why not have a go at "EvilFishing" and EvilFitch post?

You do understand that the term "Evil-fishing a post" is not in any way complimentary or positive, don't you EvilFitch?

Definition of "Evil-Fishing a post":

Reducing a thread to an incomprehensible expression of personal anguish, in the mistaken belief that it affords the author a degree of legitimacy within the wider forum population.

And yes, I just made that up.

Tell you what, why don't you come up with your definition of what you think "Evil-Fishing a post" means, and then we can ask the rest of the Community to take a vote on which definition they feel is more accurate.

Can't say fairer than that, can I?

Peace

~Through Divine Intervention~