In Reply To #73

In Reply To #72

When you conduct your, uh, "friendships" or relationships with other, actual human beings, do you do so utilising a Conservative or Republican ideology?

No and irrelevant.

What the hell does that have to do with your claim to being a pacifist that goes alongside your admission of attacking openly and with out being attacked first?

Not too bright, are you?

Do you now see that there is a difference between our political feelings about Collective Society in general; and how we feel and behave personally towards specific individuals we encounter in our lives?

Why the hell would I see the difference between how I act with other law abiding citizens of my nation and the difference between my nation and a nation that actively calls for the destruction of another nation simply because it is occupied by Jews?

Heh-heh.

Try to stay focused EvilFitch. :)

The problem you've really got though EF, is establishing which one of us really "fired the first shot".

No, that isn't a problem.  Vietnam is an excellent example.  Good luck trying to find who fired the first shot there.  History does teach us that a nation that can spend over a decade fighting another, a nation that has been at war for centuries with various powers, can leave with a peace treaty, have that peace treaty broken (which led to the fall of Saigon about 2 years later) and then, three decades later, have peaceful relations and trade with said nation.

Are you high right now?

I don't need to know who fire the first shot.  All I need to know is who is firing the shots today and who is supplying the ammo.

Well, that'll be me firing most of the shots then; and you supplying me with the ammo then.

Back on track yet? Or are you having a "Come Down"? (Is that what they call it?)

I don't care if you blame the Persians for their coups that created the stage that was set before the British invaded following the fall of the Ottoman Empire or the next invasion by the Soviets and the British during the Second World War or the removal of a Prime Minister that was sanctioned by the Government of Persia (Iran) with help from the British and the Americans. I really do not care who you blame.  That is in the past and those people are either dead or no longer in power.

Picture a journey beyond sight and sound...

If you want to use a 100 tift with Super Powers to justify terrorism and fascist states than EVERY NATION ON EARTH that suffered under the boot of the British Empire has that right and you are doomed to a new dark age of anarchy.

What's a "100 tift"?

I mean, clearly with this latest - and most enduring - round of our Conflict, I deliberately provoked you with a dig I knew you couldn't not respond to.

And what "dig" was that?

The one about your appalling grasp of History.

There was one post I have not responded to but that was directed to "whomever" by your own account and I am still awaiting your reply to the personal message I sent you; the one you have YET to send reply.

I wonder why that is?

Wonder no more:

I just got bored.

But can you still recall (or discover) which one of us was the first ever to attack the other?

Is there a point here?

Kinda.

You're currently obsessing about whether or not I'm a hypocrite, by my both stating I'm a Pacifist, and my attacking you.

But if you were the first one to have a go at me, in our History here at =PBF=; then every subsequent time I've had a go at you, would be retaliation, wouldn't it?

As a Pacifist, I'm within my rights to retaliate. :)

It was a clear, deliberate and strategic decision, I personally made, when I watched you return from sabbatical, and immediately launched into DirtySock, over some pedantic discrepancy or other that you had identified.

So now you admit to the very thing you have accused me of doing?  Thank you for admitting you are hypocrite whose words are as worthless and hollow as the ideas you pretend to defend.

Difference being that DirtySock - and many others - have never given you a reason to attack them.

The reason you've given me for attacking YOU (just you mind...), is your repeated attacks on others.

I'm pretty sure that I'm the only one currently having to deal with your turgid and shallow pedantry at the moment, aren't I?

Again, you have it backwards.  You used all the right adjectives but you applied them to the wrong person; yet again.

Have you ever wondered why "Pedantry" sounds a bit like "Pederasty"?

It's probably because they both describe a morbid and perverse interest in fiddling with small and innocent things, which the rest of normal society finds distasteful and abhorrent.

I didn't accuse you of anything, merely highlighted your own admission that you feel a moral duty to correct EVERYONE who, in your opinion, abuses "The Truth".

I DID NOT MAKE THAT STATEMENT;  YOU DID.

You made the accusation and then the assertion and then attacked me for doing so (which I never admitted to doing).  Now you admit to doing the very things you attacked me for doing (allegedly).  Now THAT is irony.

Ah, so you really don't know what irony is then.

A good example of irony would be:

Someone who claims that they lurk until they see a mistruth - accidental or otherwise - that they then lunge at; trying to say they never said such a thing.

Do you think you'll EVER get around to paying me for all this free education EvilFitch?

And now, I'm telling you that I have (recently) taken on the moral duty of attacking JUST YOU, because I feel you are a blight on this Community.

And that means... what?  You now freely admit to trolling because you do not like me.

Well, technically, it's your behaviour towards other members of this Community that I don't like: but it amounts to about the same thing.

Why do you lurk and lunge here at =PBF=? Surely there must be some other forum that deserves you more than us?

The MODS may not like it (just as they closed the last thread because YOU took the thread off track while I was trying to stick to the topic) so feel free to fuck with that at your own peril.

My recollection is that Superslacks asked us to desist; I said "No Problem"; you couldn't desist; and Superslacks closed the thread.

Do I recall incorrectly?

And as far as the moderators go: whilst I feel it is my bound and duty to do what I can to limit your obnoxious behaviour around here; I realise that too much worrying at a dead sheep is going to stink the place up.

I'll probably give it a rest after this post; before the Mods have to ask both of us to desist.

You and I are discussing You and I: not anyone else.

Don't you dare tell me where I can take this discussion and where I cannot.

Alright, alright, calm down, calm down.

I wasn't telling you where you can take this discussion or not: I was just telling you that as far as I am concerned, you and I are just discussing you and I.

Do you feel that is an incorrect statement?

Peace