In Reply To #135

What is also very clear EvilFitch, is that the focus of our dialogue now has lost all relevance to this or any other Public Forum.

Not at all.  The focus of my dialogue has been on your ignorance and arrogance since the first time I clicked "Reply" to one of your monotonous diatribes:  my categorical exposure of your lies, half truths, and out right ignorance.

No, no, no, you've missed the point again EvilFitch.

AND have managed to validate and support the point I was making in the process, again.

Look, read more carefully what you've written:

"Not at all."

Standard EvilFitch opener - akin to "You think wrong."

Then you write:

The focus of my dialogue has been on your ignorance and arrogance since the first time I clicked "Reply" to one of your monotonous diatribes:  my categorical exposure of your lies, half truths, and out right ignorance.

See, now that sums it all up really, doesn't it EvilFitch.

Now when I say that it is clear that the focus of our dialogue has lost all relevance to a public forum, what I mean is:

NO-ONE ELSE IS READING ANY MORE, EVILFITCH.

No-one ever reads your "Evil-Fished" responses. When you go "EvilFish" on a post, that's when everyone switches off. No-one is reading your line-by-line sophomoric prevarications; no-one is reading your specious arguments; no-one is paying you any attention.

*I* paid you some attention EvilFitch. Wasn't that nice of me? Here I am, ordinary decent person, with family, friends and people who actually like me, and I went and responded line-by-line, to one of your posts. (Btw, the "...more excited and more erect" comment was supported by your response to my response to your response...)

But even I've stopped reading now: 'fraid I had to get back to my day-job.

So why do you bother posting EvilFitch?

I post because I enjoy writing to an appreciative audience - they tell me so, in-thread.

I post because I enjoy debating ideas with my friends - especially those friends whose political views differ completely from mine own.

And I post because I enjoy being a part of a solid community of like-minded individuals - "Like-minded" doesn't mean we think the same things, or even the same way: it means that our motivations are the same.

It means that there is a core of individuals here at =PBF=, who are trying to do something constructive and positive with the time they spend on the Net. It means that there are a bunch of guys who see =PBF= as a "Working Man's Club", a place where they can hang out, chill, talk bollocks, find out some interesting things, and generally watch the World go by with an E-pint in their hand.

It means that we all like to discuss the issues of the World, in a robust and respectful way.

What is it you're here for EvilFitch?

What is it that made you decide to come back, after your break?

What is it that you bring to the Party?

'Cos, you know, far as I can tell, you don't bring anything but rancour, contempt, hostility, divisiveness and negativity.

You use exactly the same tactics with everyone who has the misfortune to catch your Thread-Rapist's eye. You thrust yourself into whatever thread you feel is crying out for your attention; pour out a whole load of regurgitated facts - presented without context, premise or purpose; and of course, over-personalise any and all disagreements so that the thread ends up filled with pages and pages of your socially dysfunctional emotions.

You should be grateful that I deigned to lower myself to converse with you, EvilWretch. I leant you a degree of legitimacy for a while there. Had to stop, of course, before your intrinsic illegitimacy and the way people feel about you started to rub-off on me. But it was a fun weekend, while it lasted.

Now then, given that you have admitted that you don't know how to make actual friends through the Internet; and given that the dwindling band of outcasts who more or less compulsively echo your tone aren't really friends at all (it is me they hate, not you that they like): you've got to be asking yourself why you come here.

I mean, it looks as though your brother has had the good sense to realise his particular brand of Fundamentalist Christianity isn't desired or respected around here. Surely you don't want another situation where you look worse than him, because of the different choices you both make?

Look, there's no equivalency between you and I EvilFitch.

I'm a popular guy around here, I'm respected and well-liked. I'm one of the many contributors to this forum who is regarded as positive, constructive, and useful to have around. I would be missed if I left.

You on the other hand, well, you're just another person who can't generate positive attention in other people; so you generate negative attention as an alternative to no attention at all. And whilst you were gone, there was a palpable drop in tension, and a more positive feel to the Forum.

You come back and launch straight into your standard operating procedure: crowbar your way into a thread; then reduce it to incomprehensible drivel by personalising any discussion or debate.

Why is it not clear to you that you are so heavily disliked?

Why is it not clear to you that not caring about being so heavily disliked, is not a good thing?

Why doesn't it occur to you that since you dislike so many of the contributions to this forum that you can do nothing but create negativity around them, you really ought to go find another forum where people do agree with you?

Let's suspend disbelief for a moment and imagine that I, and all the other =PBF= regulars have comparably inadequate comprehension and History skills to you. I mean, that is what you're always going on about: how much more you know about History, English, the Truth etc. So let's pretend it is true for a moment.

Why do you spend so much of your time bullying people about their level of understanding on these subjects?

Really, let's just imagine for a minute you really do know so much more than I about History, the English Language, and the Truth. Wouldn't the way that you have gone about dealing with my "lesser ability", make you a bully?

Doesn't the way you go about dealing with anyone here who doesn't suck your E-peen, make you a bully? (If they really are as inferior to you as you make always make out?)

What is it makes you think the majority of us here at =PBF= want a bully in our midst?

And why don't you just fuck off?

(Seriously: I'm interested to know.)

Peace