In Reply To #106

So rather than increasing my workload - you know, like forcing me to type out everything you'd written :) - you just gave me no work to do at all.

I gave you a choice;  you could continue the game you started or you could quit.

B-b-b-b-but you DIDN'T continue the game I started! Goddammit!

I started the Game of posting responses in LEGIBLE image format, which to be fair, you did have a crack at, but you gave up half way through and changed it to a Game of sending each other ILLEGIBLE messages.

And whilst you keep saying that it is possible to read your Image, it doesn't change the fact that neither I, nor anyone else (but you allegedly) can or can be bothered to.

You know, my best guess about our "Audience", is that no-one else is bothering to give our bickering anything more than a passing scan; you MAY believe that others are watching us with riveted attention, like spectators at a tennis match.

But if you're going to hide the ball down the back of your pants, it's not going to be much fun for either of us, and I reckon the "Audience" have already left their seats.

The Game I started was posting my response to you in a LEGIBLE image format, so that you'd have to type out all my words in order to "EvilFish" them.

Yeah well I already told you that I took the game to the NEXT LEVEL.

The "NEXT LEVEL" being illegibility and poor imitation?

As you just said, you wanted to use a format that, by your reconing, "slowed me down" (you didn't) so I thought I would slow you down.  Seeing as this has spilled over many posts from where we left off, I would say it slowed you down considerably.

Oh, I don't know.

See, the LEGIBLE image thing was just something I threw into the mix, to liven up the GRANDER Game you and I are playing, which was, let's face it, getting a bit stale.

That broader Game is my drawing your "EvilFish-Fire" away from everyone else here. I'm not at all interested in debating or discussing anything rational with you; I just like dogging your every step around here, and poking you with a stick whenever the opportunity arises.

And let's face it, barring your contact with me, you've been on your best-est and most ingratiating EvilFitch behaviour recently, haven't you? ;-)

That's amusing because I took what you did and changed it about.  So I was not copying you (but I can understand why you would think that).

Now the far more interesting point is the one to be made regarding you copying me.

I have noticed that you have begun to "EvilFish" your posts in a manner uncommon to your style around here.

Quite so: though I can't help but notice you've so far signally failed to post anything in a manner common to MY usual style. ;-)

Still, at least you acknowledge that I can copy your style; but then, I guess that's implied by the shallow and pedantic style you use.

(BTW: Is your shallowness related to your in ability to perceive depth?)

But you know, it's a question of respect, isn't it? I could hardly dismiss and denigrate your style, without at least attempting to try and match it. You know: "Walk a mile in another man's shoes..." and all that - very instructive. I'd hoped that by forcing you to type out my words, you might have gotten a little taste of what it is like to "Walk on the Bright Side".

It probably comes down to a question of tactics and strategy.

You're not a very strategic player, and your tactics tend to be formed after you've acted; from a hasty attempt to rationalise past actions (you know: like redefining what you'd previously written, when you get pulled up on it, that sort of thing).

I, on the other hand, am a deeply strategic thinker, and have had my strategy planned out these past couple of weeks; and so far, am seeing no reason to change or adjust it.

Can you tell yet, what my Strategy is?

Peace