In Reply To #66

Politically, I'm a Pacifist: I don't believe any Society or Culture should use violence offensively, or as a matter of policy.

That belief is irrelevant to this discussion.  All that matters here is the claim you have bestowed upon yourself and your actions which have all but contradicted said claim.

Let's try to stick to the subject shall we.

When you conduct your, uh, "friendships" or relationships with other, actual human beings, do you do so utilising a Conservative or Republican ideology?

Do you conduct your personal relationships with other humans, under the rubric of "Peace Through Superior Firepower"?

Maybe the latter, but I can't see how you'd manage the former.

Equally, when you consider the relationship between your country and, say, Iran: do you do so considering how much you like Iran? How Iran makes you feel, in and of yourself? How nice and pleasant, or nasty and unpleasant Iran is? When you consider the relationship between your Conservative values and others' Socialist values, do you do so based on how Socialist behaviour makes you feel about your Self?

Do you now see that there is a difference between our political feelings about Collective Society in general; and how we feel and behave personally towards specific individuals we encounter in our lives?

The problem you've really got though EF, is establishing which one of us really "fired the first shot". I mean, clearly with this latest - and most enduring - round of our Conflict, I deliberately provoked you with a dig I knew you couldn't not respond to.

But can you still recall (or discover) which one of us was the first ever to attack the other?

Personally: I think you're a cunt; and I'm want to treat you as such.

I figured that bit out a long time ago.  This explains your numerous posts of ignorance which, unlike many and most, you go out of your way to admit that you are not reading what I am writing but merely writing for your own personal amusement through the personal attacks on myself.

That's true: do you want to know my reasons?

I'll tell you anyway:

I fight you: so that others don't have to.

It was a clear, deliberate and strategic decision, I personally made, when I watched you return from sabbatical, and immediately launched into DirtySock, over some pedantic discrepancy or other that you had identified.

I thought to myself:

I bet that if I REALLY get on EvilFitch's case now, REALLY give him a hard time about his anti-social and obnoxious behaviour around here: he will be forced onto the defensive, and have to try and make the case that he isn't as anti-social and obnoxious as I'm trying to make out.

In order to achieve that, EvilFitch will have to play nice with all the other =PBF='rs, so as to invalidate and de-legitimise all my claims about his anti-social and obnoxious behaviour.

And you know what? I reckon I'm doing a pretty good job so far: you've certainly been on your best behaviour recently - with respect to everyone else around here - haven't you? I'm pretty sure that I'm the only one currently having to deal with your turgid and shallow pedantry at the moment, aren't I?

(WARNING EF: That's a bear-trap. If you answer in the positive, you'll justify my actions; and if you answer in the negative - that in fact, you HAVE been attacking other people whilst you and I have been locking horns... Well, that will justify my entire position, won't it?)

Attacking you isn't so much a contradiction for me, as it is a necessary duty

More irony.  Was it not you who applied that nature to myself not a week ago when you accused me of making every post revolving around ignorance a moral duty?

Your hypocrisy grows deeper with every post boyo.

Not quite, no.

I didn't accuse you of anything, merely highlighted your own admission that you feel a moral duty to correct EVERYONE who, in your opinion, abuses "The Truth".

And now, I'm telling you that I have (recently) taken on the moral duty of attacking JUST YOU, because I feel you are a blight on this Community.

No contradiction or hypocrisy here: move along please.

Seeing as, by your own admission, you post with your feelings rather than logical though (more irony given your accusations against me) I expect nothing less because I know you are capable of no more here.

I can assure you that Feelings and Emotion are not mutually exclusive with logical thought.

You just THINK that EvilFitch.

WRONG!

You accuse me of something you admit to doing yourself.  Two different standards.

No.

You said I had one standard for myself, and one for Everyone else.

And I said I had one standard for me and Everyone else; and one "standard" for you.

Don't try to generalise or broaden the scope of my attack EvilFitch: it won't do you any good.

You and I are discussing You and I: not anyone else.

I have one standard - respectful civility - for me and Everyone else around here; and one "standard" - dismissal and denigration - for you.

So you admit to having two distinct, separate standards?  Is that NOT what I said before?  So you said I was "WRONG" and then go on to say I am right?

LMFAO!

See above.

What's your point?

My point is simple:  I do not do that which you do.  I hold myself to the SAME standard for which I hold others.  By your own admission, you do not.

Again...

Why do you keep trying to conflate my attitude towards you, with my attitude towards Everyone else around here?

The two really are very distinct and separate.

This goes back to your unjust weights and measures:  One standard for yourself an one for everyone else.

There! You said it again.

You really do have the wrong end of the stick you know.

I wait and lurk and when I see somebody, willingly or otherwise, force an opinion off as fact I lunge in.

Not while I've got a breath left in my body you won't.

Peace