In Reply To #87

Top Tip EvilFitch: if you're going to bother writing your stuff with the belief that people are actually reading it, you're going to need to get with it on the HTML code.

Your style is your style, and neither of us can level charges of over-verbosity at each other. But you'll find it much easier to believe people are reading your stuff, if you present it in a way that is at least palatable to the eye.

Oh, and obviously, for the sake of brevity (:)), I'll skip responding to the minor insults, as I would invite you to do in any future response of your own.

You know, like you skipped responding to the bit where I quoted you talking about the US gaining a key ally in Israel. :)

In Reply To #86

I really tried.

I doubt that boyo;  I really do.  Reading comprehension is a requisite for an attempt and I have seen nothing to demonstrate any semblance thereof in your previous posts.

Too unbelievable to work as an insult EvilFitch.

For an insult to work, it's got to stand a chance of sticking. Whilst clearly you consider yourself my superior in your mastery of English; you must allow for the Truth that my facility with English is, shall we say, above-average?

In your effort to squeeze as many polysyllabic words into your insult as you can, whilst using a late-Victorian British meter, you've ended up trying to slam the door shut too hard.

What you've done instead, is highlighted an area of your own personal insecurity.

Pity.

But I only got about half way through your turgid prose.

I can understand why you would think what you were reading was "turgid" considering a good chunk of it was the repetition of your drivel.

That was faintly amusing.

Sorry: I really thought I could do it at the beginning, but my attention just waned right off about half way down.

Well it is fitting then; a simple man has a simple attention span.

I think it is fitting to our situation that you issue something as an insult, and I receive it as a compliment.

Thank you EvilFish, very nice of you to say. :)

You do realise that in a debate with someone, it is a good idea to try and think about what they're thinking of, don't you?

Actually, the essence of debate is not to "think about what somebody else is thinking" but to intricately know how a person thinks.

I disagree.

The essence of debate is to understand why somebody else feels the way that they do.

The practice of debate is explaining to another, how and why you think the way you do.

In an open debate, participants are voluntarily expressing what ideas they have about things, and the way they think about those things, i.e. what produces their ideas.

The essence of debate is in understanding why we each have different ideas about things.

The purpose of debate is to establish, on merit, which of those ideas holds greater value.

Once you have the how then the what that follows is natural.

There is nothing Natural following you EvilFitch.

There is Nothing following you.

In your case, I know that your line of thinking is one disassociated from reality and history.  You think the world is some grandiose version of kindergarten where people will just play nice, hold hands, and love each other provided there is a loving teacher waiting in the wings to provide jello and cookies.

What you know is incorrect then.

And as usual, your mistake occurs right at the outset.

I do not think the World is the Paradise you describe.

But, I do think the World could be such a place.

Sounds like Heaven, doesn't it?

You too have a view of the Future of Humanity EvilFitch.

Mine is nicer, but no less plausible.

Certainly a lot more popular.

From here I know where you are going before you have even arrived at your destination.

Yes, EvilFitch, that is because I have been telling anyone who cares to listen, for as long as I can remember, exactly where it is that I am going.

I'm not sure what feat of yours it is that we are supposed to be celebrating.

Consistency.

Thank you. :)

You're at a real disadvantage if you only consider what's going on in your own mind.

Knowing your enemy doesn't matter worth a damn if you do not know yourself.  Sun Tzu thought along the same lines.

So did Descartes.

What territory are you and I fighting for EvilFitch?

Your disadvantage is not uncommon:  you invent some nonexistent and preposterous event or line of thinking, assume it to be the abject reality, and then proceed accordingly.

I think you mean:

I start with an idea, and then illustrate it.

Is that what you meant?

This is why you arguments, damn near every last one of them, are so profoundly inane and irrelevant:  your foundations are built on a quicksand of assumptions that are wrong.

How are you defining "wrong"?

What are the "wrong" foundations for spontaneous thought?

See what I mean about your being a complete tool?

You mean on the side of those who are RIGHT as opposed to those who murder women and children?

The side you have picked has murdered and continues to murder more women and children than the side you call WRONG.

You use a metric to define "RIGHT" - those who murder women and children - for which your side is clearly the most WRONG.

That is what I mean about your being a complete tool.

I make the point that it is problematic that we are culturally educated to pick sides. You begin by telling me I "think wrong"; and then proceed to tell me how you "...and many, many others" will pick sides, and how you were educated to do so.

I told you that you "think" wrong because you do THINK on this matter wrongly, incorrectly; a fashion that is anything but correct.

Yes. I'm not sure how simply restating what you previously said really advances the dialogue.

It just makes you sound like you can't think of an adequate response to get you off the peg I've hung you on.

You suggest the problem lies in a pre-programmed language that leads us to merely choose sides for the sake of choosing sides is either a very pathetic cop out or an admission of ignorance on the part of the societies of which you speak.

I stated clearly that I believed that we are "culturally educated to side with one party to a conflict, or another."

Why do people support sports teams? Why do people support their favourite acts in talent shows? Why do people support different political parties? Why do people support different ideologies?

Because it as a part of a Culture to do so.

All understandable. Nothing wrong with it. All anthropologically correct, nothing missing.

It's a Given.

A given I was merely pointing out as the basis for my line of reasoning.

But you have responded to it as though it were the critical basis for the justification of an ideological policy. You have tried to respond to it as though it wasn't true, and ended up validating that it is.

And made your self look absurd in the process.

Tell me, can you think of any cultures where people are educated to ping the WRONG side (as their culture sees it)?

Think of any society that is in the wrong.

Nazi Germany being a nice, easy case to lament:  People are STILL people.  Perhaps your argument would be something along the lines of "Well, they don't see themselves doing wrong so of course they do not teach people to be on the side of being wrong."

Who determines which is the "Right" side and which is the "Wrong" side?

Arab Nationalism used to be the "Right" side for America; now it is Jewish Zionism.

Islamic Fundamentalism used to be the "Right" side for America; now it is clearly the "Wrong" side.

The United States used to be on the side of Iraq, in the Iran-Iraq War - though it continued to surreptitiously and of course, illegally support Iran also. Then Saddam Hussein became the "Wrong" side; and now, Iraqis are back on the "Right" side, and Iranians once more on the "Wrong" side.

How do you keep up?

Anyway, the merits of "Right" and "Wrong" are, not to put too fine a point on it, irrelevant to the observation I made, and the general principle I was stating.

So it's difficult to know why you've lured me down this dark alley EvilFitch...

You know: "As a Culture, we Believe this is Right, and this is Wrong: you must all learn to pick the Wrong thing".

I can't imagine such cultures make much of an impact on general Human Society; maybe 'ts why I've not heard of one.

There you go again making something up out of thin air and then proceeding as if it were something I had presented earlier.

Yes, it's called "Using One's Imagination" EvilFitch - you should try it some day.

Also, I wasn't claiming it was the kind of thing you might have "presented earlier"; I was just using it as a device to illustrate the absurdity of your, umm, counter-point.

By the way, reading would aid you in your quest to understand what I have said.  Oh, woops, I went and made an assumption:  you actually wanted to understand what others have said.

That's something I do more or less unconsciously these days EvilFitch, you should try practicing it too.

What I want far more - and strive more consciously to achieve - is for others to understand what I have said.

You could try that too.

BTW, try not to feel the need to prevaricate or defend this particular observation EvilFitch, it's just an example of the way your mind works - i.e. is indicative of your general "tool-ness".

Strong words coming from a person who actually tried to make the argument that the deliberate targeting of civilians was an invention of modern warfare.

{sifts...}

Uh... No... No life left in them coals.

You still feeling their heat?

You must be more sensitive than even I'd thought.

Interesting words from a person of such esteemed ignorance as to suggest that the problems lamenting the Middle East and, indeed the world, could be resolved if only some "third party" of your selection were to take place.

I'm particularly keen to get representatives from societies who couldn't even point to the Middle East on a map.

They don't need to understand anything whatsoever of all the various slights and offences in the Middle East's History. And the less they know about Abramic religions, the better.

Yes, the people required to adjudicate this matter need only a basic understanding of human values.

We don't need a jury to establish who is to blame for the Middle East Conflict; we need independent arbiters to approve a Solution.

Again EvilFitch, this is simply standard jury-selection procedure. Not sure what principle you are having difficulty grasping.

I never get anywhere near pontificating on which side I support, or about whose interests an independent adjudicator should best represent.

That wouldn't make any sense.

Oh I am well acquainted with the inner workings of your mind and how "you think" and I must say I would be deeply disturbed were it not the immense joy I get from actually exposing your ignorance for what it is.

Well, what can I say?

I can only humbly thank you for assisting me in exposing the inner workings of my mind, and how I think.

I too gain deep joy in exposing our ignorance together. :)

You made an assumption.

You made an assumption that was made in ignorance. You then used the magical word "REQUIRED" which pushed your ignorant opinion into the realm of fact. You said that an "arbitrary (as if one ACTUALLY existed) is required to settle differences, and if necessary, impose a solution." I demonstrated HOW this statement was both wrong and ignorant and then went on to demonstrate WHY this OPINION was both wrong and ignorant. You MADE AN ASSUMPTION. You proceeded to take that assumption and PUSH IT OFF AS IF IT WERE FACT. See what I mean?

bluecap

Voooooommmm!

There goes the EvilHare - Outta Sight!

The assumption you make is that I'm referring to a human 3rd Party.

It's not difficult to understand why you made this assumption because, in your mad dash, you dismissed my rather eloquent - if I do say so myself - depiction of Lady Justice, in all her verdi gris glory.

Or, are you saying that the Law is irrelevant, and should be dismissed from all discussion on this and perhaps other topics?

(See how I avoided using an assumption there..? Thanks for the coaching. :))

Since Israel is an ally of the United States, and the Palestinian Authority is not, why does America try to portray itself as some kind of neutral authority in the Conflict

That is an invention of your mind.

What is? That America tries to portray itself as some kind of neutral authority in the Arab-Israeli Conflict?

If that is the case, why has the office of POTUS dominated any and all attempts at reconciliation between the two warring factions, for at least the last thirty years?

Why hasn't the 2002 Arab League plan been implemented?

You have now made up some fantasy, as if an authority HAS to be neutral, and have gone about passing that IGNORANCE off as fact.

Ooops. Got carried away for a moment there - thought I was having a real debate about World issues for a second... :)

The United States Government has a lot of ears in a lot of places and IF ANYBODY was going to be an authority on this issue, it would be the Americans.  Not Norway, not Fiji, or any other country far secluded from this issue in comparison to the Americans.

Riiiight...

So you are now agreeing with the thing that you just claimed I made up as "some fantasy".

That if anybody should be an authority on the issue, it would be the Americans.

Do you see now though how it doesn't really negate my proposition that since America is so far included (and occluded) with this Conflict, it can't really be trusted to provide a fair and equitable solution?

and try to play the role of a neutral authority in the Conflict - when clearly at every step is going to be looking out for the interests of its ally

Who claimed to be "Neutral?"  Who said being neutral was a requisite?  That's right, that was YOU who said that.  When has the United States denied supplying Israel with the financial and military means to defend herself?

Being "Neutral" isn't a prerequisite for supplying Israel with military and economic support.

Being Neutral is however a prerequisite for sponsoring and supporting a Solution that is fair and equitable to all the warring parties in the Conflict.

When has the United States told the world to ignore the "Made in America" written on some of Israel's most formidable weapons?

Every time it tries to portray the Israelis as hapless victims in this Conflict.

Once more you invent something that does not exist in your mind and throw it into the realm of reality as if it was accurate (it isn't) or as if it mattered (it doesn't).

And once more, having tried to use something to attack me with, you've ended up supporting and validating the point I was making.

The United States can play no further part in mediating the Arab-Israeli Conflict.

That seals the deal for me.  The so-called Holy Man believes that only a nation who is impartial (that doesn't exist boyo) can mediate anything in this conflict ergo the United States has to step down!

Whoever would have thought that it would be EvilFish who managed to sum up, in an eloquent and clear nutshell, the simplicity behind one of Holyman's more complex ideas? :)

You are stuck in a fantasy land.

Hah!

Oh, *I* know that.

Do you? ;-)

Therefore Israel has decided it must totally dominate the Palestinians.

Yes which is why Israel is removing Jewish settlers from disputed lands and building walls around her borders.

Notice you said "borders" in the plural form there EvilFitch.

How many, uh, "borders" does Israel envisage having with the Palestinian Authority?

As many as America has with Canada?

Or as many as... Well, it's difficult to think of many countries that have more than one border with another country. I think one of the former Soviet-Baltic States - Moldova or Estonia or some such - had to cede a small enclave to the Russian Federation. Sticks out like a sore thumb on the Atlas.

Other than that, it's difficult to think of any other two nations that have multiple borders, delineated by 30ft high concrete enclosures - sorry - security fences - and with one side having complete control and dominance over movement across those borders.

Complete control of Palestinian movement across those borders to Greater (and Enclosing) Israel; and of course, to the Rest of the World.

Difficult to see how it isn't just a series of prison camps, like the Bantustans South African governments kept kaffirs - sorry - moderately more disadvantaged human beings, in.

You truly are brainwashed.

Quite so.

And I'm very happy with my wash thank you.

What detergent are you selling?

In the last 40 years, Israel has killed considerably more Palestinians, than Palestinians have killed Israelis.

So?  Logically, what the hell does that prove?  All that proves is that Israel has been more adept at killing those who attacked her than her enemies.

So on the grievance scale measured in human loss and tragedy: who scores highest and lowest?

Who deserves more sympathy from those of us without a dog in this race?

The Israelis killed more Arabs in the Yom Kippur War than the Arabs killed Israelis.

The Americans killed more Japanese in WWII than the Japanese killed Americans.

Charge a tank with an assault rifle and watch the tank kill you.

Right.

But are we supposed to sympathise with the tank too? Understand the suffering and torment it goes through, as it mows down rifleman? Pity the poor tank driver, in his stuffy cockpit, hidden from the sunshine by all that armour, having to kill all those riflemen who, let's face it, don't stand any real chance of doing much damage to him and his crew: in their Tank.

Griefer mentality.

Just because the Israelis have been better at dealing death to those who seek death does not make Israel responsible for that death; they could have chosen to LIVE with Israel rather than make war with Israel.

"They" have never been allowed the free choice to NOT live with Israel.

Therefore your argument is specious.

Once again, so-called Holy Man, YOU FAIL AT LOGIC.

Your logic being:

The Arabs have been offered Peace terms by Israel.

Those Peace terms have always massively, massively favoured the Israelis; and have all been stamped with the authority of The United States of America.

Some Arabs, particularly in Palestine, have rejected and continue to reject such Peace offerings, as unfair and unjust.

Therefore: all Arabs deserve what Israel gives them.

Not really logic, so much as rampant speciousness.

There you go.

How many times has Israel accepted Peace terms proposed by the Arabs? And how many times has Israel rejected Arab Peace proposals? How many times has Israel rejected International proposals?

The Palestinians may continue to refuse to do what Israel demands of them (and good luck to the Palestinians, I say); but the Israelis continues to reject what the International Community (present company excepted) demands of them.

So Israel scores lowest on the "Woman and Children" body-count metric; and now it shits out on "Respecting the Will of Civilised Society".

Israel clearly has the upper hand militarily - what with its 21st Century U.S. arsenal, and oh yes, those nukes - and Palestinians are forced to desperate measures just to get themselves noticed.

Nobody forces them to do anything.  Nobody forces them to strap bombs to their chests and blow up INNOCENT CIVILIANS who want nothing and have NOTHING to do with the issue in Israel.

Nobody forces the members of the Israeli Defence Force to do same either, but they still do.

Once more you prove your complete withdrawal from reality by blaming those damn Jews for killing more Palestinians because their weaponry happens to be better.

Not "blaming" Jewish people for anything: you're the one obsessing about blame.

I'm merely pointing out that as an objective measure, Israeli violence against Palestinians is far, far more effective than Palestinian violence against Israelis.

Why, it's like you figure I favour one form of violence over another.

Shame on you EvilFitch; I thought you knew me better than that.

It is Israel that seeks the total domination of Palestinians.

If Israel wanted the total domination of the Palestinian land mass, they could have it and that right soon.

No, Israel couldn't have that if it wanted it right now.

The International Community has learned from Auschwitz and Soweto that such action will not and can not be tolerated, regardless of what it costs to prevent it.

And before you hare off to the Darfur Racetrack, let me clear up the misconception that is sending you off in that direction.

Israel could not and can not have total domination of the Palestinian land mass, not because the International Community would prevent or punish it; but because Israelis won't allow it.

And most Israelis know enough about genocide - maybe too much - to know it when they see it.

If the popular will existed in Israel today, to take on the surrounding Arab nations (+ Iran) that Israel feels (irrationally) threatened by, and perhaps to implement a Final Solution to the Palestinian Problem, then it would already have done so.

If Israel wanted to, it probably could withstand the international approbation that would follow the expansion of its Apartheid regime throughout the P.A. But most Israelis do not want that: most Israelis, like most Palestinians, want to live in Peace.

But, there are certain elite factions within both highly militarised societies, who do want total domination, one way or another.

The only difference is that the Israeli faction that favours domination of Palestinians, is clearly more effective than the Palestinian factions that favour domination of Israelis.

'Nother score against Israel, really.

They fact they have put up with years and years of violence at the hands of these thugs and the support from ignorant mooks, such as yourself, who blame the deaths of these murderers on the superior firepower of the Israelis, is proof positive they are NOT out for the total domination of Palestine.

Well, Israel hasn't really "put up" with Arab violence for years and years, has it?

As is well documented - and agreed - it has been the overt military policy of Israel for the last forty years, to try and stamp out all sources of Arab violence against Israelis.

Only, it seems that no matter how many damn A-rabs are killed, thousands more just seem to spring right back up...

A funny thing for a power who WANTS CONTROL of land to GIVE that land up freely.

Not that funny for it to give it up unilaterally, under its own conditions; whilst maintaining military dominance, and controlling all entry and exits.

Many Israelis recognise the Gaza Strip for what it is - an enormous concentration camp - why won't you?

It is a well recorded fact that the various ideologies and customs of these various Arab armies are such that preclude an effective fighting force from ever coming to pass.

You are saying that Arab cultural foundations preclude the formation of an effective fighting force.

If that is the case: why feel so threatened by them?

Or, perhaps it isn't the case. There are several  - dozens really - of effective Arab fighting forces doing a pretty good job of nixing the military objectives of the "World's Only Superpower" in Iraq right now.

Oh, I forget, they don't count, because they don't play fair...

This is one of the reasons the new, tiny nation of Israel can withstand the bombardment of damn near every nation in the Middle East and live to kick their ass another day.

So essentially, Israel has nothing whatsoever to fear from its Arab neighbours?

Listening to your take on History is a bit like listening to someone use a word they've only ever read - but think it sounds clever - and completely mispronouncing it.

Funny, I get the same feeling reading your long, irrelevant posts.  For some reason you believe spending 20 words to say 2 is somehow telling of a fare intellect.

Well, better to spend 20 words to say 2, than 500 to say nothing!

!!!POW!!!

(Is that how you do it?)

To say nothing of brevity alone, I find this amusing.

But to be fair, you do keep spectacularly missing the points I keep making, and haring off in the wrong direction.

It can't be that I'm being unclear: I know Foota understood me, and I flatter myself that I believe more than a few others did too.

So whose intellect is faltering here EvilFitch?

I can express my ideas succinctly in a single sentence; and if I feel it appropriate, illustrate those ideas with reason.

But because people like you tend to pick-up the wrong end of the stick, and go racing towards the wrong horizon, I must perforce provide a more detailed substantiation of my reasoning.

(That's how it should sound. :))

And speaking of which, why do you keep typing "so-called" before Holyman?

Open a dictionary and educate yourself.  The word has a meaning and it is apt.

Main Entry: so-called Pronunciation: 'sO-'koldFunction: adjective1 : commonly named : popularly so termed "the so-called pocket veto"2 : falsely or improperly so named "deceived by a so-called friend"

Oh, I see.

Faced with two differing definitions, I'm using the former, and you're using the latter.

Don't worry EvilFitch:

I've never said I was your holy man. :)

Understand sweet heart?  Or do I need bright colors and poster board?

BRIGHT colours please! :)

There! I did it! (And don't think I'll be doing it again with you, naughty EvilFitch!)

How'd I score?

Peace