H: "No, the real question is: Why do you bully and intimidate other posters, at all?"

E: First and foremost, I do not bully anybody.  You can ask for specific examples and I will gladly give them but rest assured, I do not bully anybody.  That is a myth perpetrated by people with severe problems they project onto me.

You claim to know more about many subjects, and "The Truth" in general, than many others in the Forum.

BY YOUR OWN ADMISSION, you feel the compulsive need to correct what you consider to be errors on others' parts.

Your "corrections" are frequently hostile and aggressive. You drown the "correctee" in verbiage, and assault the legitimacy of their opinions and values. You pour invective over them like a bad rash. You dismiss and denigrate others' lack of intelligence and education.

These are all extremely common qualities of your contributions to the forum.

These are all the actions of a bully.

E: Secondly, intimidation is a trick of the mind.  You cannot intimidate a person who will not allow it.  Period.  I can attest to this to be an a fact of reality having seen and experienced it first hand.

I agree with you.

You can not intimidate me, because I do not allow you to intimidate me.

But the corollary to your statement is that you CAN intimidate people who DO allow it.

And you do.

I can intimidate people who allow their selves to be intimidated by me. But I do not. In fact, I try to make a point of only attempting to intimidate people I'm fairly sure won't be intimidated by me: hence you, Foota, your brother, and only 1 or 2 others.

The purpose of that is to try to demonstrate to others being intimidated by you, that they don't need to feel intimidated by you: that they do not need to allow their selves to be intimidated by you.

But really, don't you think that it would be a far more fragrant state of affairs if YOU just stopped trying to intimidate and bully others here at =PBF=?

It has no positive or constructive purpose.

H: ---"And I'm not asking for the "rational" answer; I'm asking for an Emotional answer."

E: I do not "do" emotional answers.  My brain is for thinking and my heart is for feeling and the two are, in my world, mutually exclusive.  That is my prerogative and I have my reasons for this and they are mine alone.

Well here's the rub.

Whatever reasons you may have for trying to keep your emotional responses separate from your rational responses, you are failing to achieve your goal.

Your responses are frequently highly emotional.

The whole barrage of our recent dialogue has been highly emotionally charged. When you personalise the discussion about your self, you are emotionalising the dialogue.

Let's take our recent contretemps as an example:

I'd already made several contributions to the "Laughing...At...Palestine" thread, before you joined in, none of which you felt compelled to respond to.

Then, after a brief sojourn, I came back in with a new post that began with a dig, specifically at your revisionist History, and generally at others' similar contributions.

Then I went on to make a very simple point:

We are inclined - through cultural education - to pick sides in a conflict.

You never disagreed with that point, you merely validated it.

I then used that point as a basis for reasoning that the United States is as much a part of the Arab-Israeli Conflict as Israel or the Palestinian Authority.

And finally, I concluded that since the United States was so complicit in the Conflict, it couldn't create a fair and equitable solution, or play any part in producing such a solution.

That's it. I could have easily stated it as briefly as that; but I like verbal illustration, and I know that many =PBF= members enjoy reading my verbal illustration.

Now, somewhere within your lengthy responses, you did address the only possibly contentious aspect of that reasoning: that maybe the United States does NOT try to portray itself as independent or objective in relation to the Arab-Palestinian Conflict.

That is certainly debatable.

But any such debate got hopelessly lost in your EMOTIONAL response to my dig at you. All subsequent dialogue in thread between us was highly emotionally charged, and was not in any way separated from your rational responses to my argument.

Now before you might try to charge me with bringing as much Emotion to our dialogue as you, understand that I have NOT made the decision to separate Emotion from reason.

I am ALL ABOUT Emotion. I value Emotional Intelligence far more highly than any of the many and varied rational intelligence measures. Everything about my prose is intended to facilitate an exchange of Emotions - ideally positive - between myself and those who read my contributions.

Ideally that will be an exchange of Emotions about the Human Condition, Life on Earth, and the Purpose of Existence. But if it becomes an exchange of Emotions about and between specific individuals, then I'm cool with that also.

Key thing being that I don't try to fool myself that I'm keeping my Emotions separate from my rational thought.

To be fair, I don't think many others around here do either.

You know, we've already mentioned Foota's response. His response to the same post was unabashedly Emotional. He supports Israel wholeheartedly, because he feels that Israeli grievances against Arabs are greater than Arab grievances against Israel.

Debatable, of course, depending on which metrics you use (and it's only really "Civilised Methods of Killing" that the Arabs score low on); but Foota was and is happy to side with Israel on such irrational precepts as morality and decency.

And of course, the fact that his partner is Jewish.

Again, remember that I don't have a problem with Emotional responses. I think all True responses should be Emotional. How we feel about things is likely to be far more accurate than what we think about those same things.

It may just be that your intention to separate Emotion from Reason, is what results in your conversations so frequently ending up as Emotional disputes.

H: ---"I know that you THINK that there is a requirement for you to "Set the Record Straight", police ignorance, and attack anyone on the slightest provocation."

E: There is a method to my madness and a rubric to my so-called bullying (which, if understood, clearly demonstrates why what I do is anything but bullying).  You and others see a parcel of this when you claim I am following a pattern.  You are correct that I do follow a set of standards that I apply equally to all people (myself included) on these forums but your are incorrect in the standards I apply.

Think for a moment; were I genuinely a "bully" as is claimed or, in internet terms as I think applies aptly to this medium, a TROLL, why would I bother to hold discourse to this extent?

Why does any bully, bully?

Self-aggrandisement and a false sense of legitimacy and inclusion.

E: Why post a 3 page response that is line by line (which is just shy of 40 MS Word pages) if my sole purpose is to insult, berate, and harangue those around here?

But that is HOW you insult, berate and harangue people around here.

H:---"But why do you FEEL the need to try and present yourself as some kind of arbiter of Truth?"

E: This is an area in which you are mistaken.  You mistakenly think that I consider myself to be the sole arbiter of truth when, in reality, I consider every person who holds the truth to be such.  TRUTH, not the person spreading the truth, is the SOLE arbiter in this case.

But what is Truth? Is Truth unchanging Law? We both have truths; are mine the same as yours?

How is the TRUTH arbitrated? Is there some secret, shadowy council of Historians, Economists, Politicians and Media Moguls, all deciding what "The Truth" is?

Surely TRUTH is a matter of perspective; and individual perspectives are many and varied.

I'm sure you are familiar with the hoary old tale of the five blind men gripping different parts of an elephant, and each identifying it as something different: a snake; a tree; a rope etc. They are each telling the Truth as they understand it; but there is clearly a wider Truth they are failing to see.

How wide does a perspective need to be, to Understand the Whole Truth?

You do understand that History is an Art, rather than a Science, don't you? You do understand that academic institutions classify it as an artistic endeavour, not a scientific one, don't you?

There's a reason for that, and it is simply that it is impossible to form closed conclusions about History: there is ALWAYS a very, very good chance that new information will come to light that will challenge or dramatically alter any such concrete conclusions.

So what we look for in History is not undeniable proof of the Truth, or irrevocable conclusions; we look for clues and indicators that will help us better understand what we are doing, by learning from what we have done in the past.

Trying to establish "The Truth" in all History, is like trying to nail jelly to the wall.

For you to present yourself as a self-appointed Guardian-of-the-Truth, is not only to demonstrate a lack of understanding of the nature of Truth, but is a pretty weak justification for the emotional antagonism you create within threads.

E: I loathe ignorance (which all of us possess) but I hold a special enmity for lairs and willful stupidity.  I this day and age, especially in this day and age, there is no excuse for the rampant ignorance presented here and elsewhere.

How do you determine whether someone is being deliberately deceitful or wilfully stupid, or whether they just simply don't know any better?

Can you not see that your arbitrating whether people are deserving of your enmity - based on your deciding whether they are being wilfully stupid or ignorant, or they simply don't know - is at least, socially dysfunctional behaviour; and at worst, just a way for you to rationalise your tendency to bully?

H: ---"Why do you feel that attacking anyone for any reason, is something that you must do?"

E: Why do you assume that I attack for ANY reason?  This is a false assumption.  I have a very SPECIFIC set of reasons for attacking.

You misunderstand me, my fault probably.

I meant to say "...any reason at all"

Why do you feel that attacking anyone, even for a very SPECIFIC set of reasons, is something that you must do? Why do you feel that any and all forms of attack are welcomed by the wider =PBF= Community?

(And I am NOT talking about defending yourself when someone attacks you.)

H: ---"But when you over-personalise your disagreements with others, and use emotional invective to try and batter your _opponent_ into submission: you put yourself wholly at odds with what the rest of the =PBF= Community is trying to achieve."

E: I have not read any unified report regarding what the PBF collective is attempting to achieve.

Have a really good think about what you've just written there.

Emergent systems do not follow blueprints. By their works should you judge them.

Try to FEEL your way to the answer regarding what the PBF collective is attempting to achieve. Then try to decide whether you want to be a positive or negative contributor to that.

E: Quite to the contrary, I see some very stark division that is not necessarily equally divided but in adequate numbers on both sides to be noticeable, that leads me to believe there is no possible way any one poster, who is not in direct violation regarding the rules set forth in this forum, can be "wholly at odds with what the rest of the...community is trying to achieve."

You are just not being cool.

By your own admission, you separate Emotion from Reason. You attempt to make your participation rational, not Emotional.

That isn't how friendships work; and it isn't how friends socialise collectively.

Hostility, contention, antagonism, divisiveness, adversarial discourse: these are qualities common to too many Internet forums. Ask =PBF= members if they would like to encourage those kind of qualities around here, and the most likely answer will be no.

I shouldn't have to tell you this; you're supposed to be an intelligent man. Look at the posters who get banned - look at Kuro-Chan, CCCP, even Bigguns. Look at the kind of threads that get locked. Look at the nature of the dialogue in those threads.

These are all subtle and strong indicators of the kind of Community that is being built (albeit unconsciously, for the most part) around here.

Peace