[quote=JFitch][color=teal]It seems that you are saying that the problem with God is religion that forms around Him. I would say that it is not the religion that corrupts the notion of God, but the sinful humans that add their own ways of worship which God has not prescribed. I believe that God has given us revelation about Himself so that we can know more about Him, worship Him as He wants us to, and obey Him in order to give Him glory and be peaceful with each other.[/color][/quote]

Ah, well, I wouldn't deign to tell you of all people JF, how your God operates, or what He has in mind for you and the other souls you share this World with.

My focus, such as it is, is directed upon those souls, rather than their progenitor, whomever or whatever that may be.

And I'm not sure that we differ so much on this issue, though we use different language to describe essentially the same thing.

You talk about the "sinful humans that add their own ways of worship which God has not prescribed". I don't know about God's prescriptions, but I think I was saying the same thing when I wrote about the layer of buildings, ceremonies, laws and authority that Humanity constructs around its Deities.

[quote=JFitch][color=teal]Faith, itself, is nothing. Admire it if you wish, but faith in something false is not something to be admired, rather than pitied, as man here think of me and my faith. Faith in the truth is what matters. It seems that you are one of those who don't believe that the destination is important, but rather it is the journey that matters most. You aren't concerned with truth as much as you are with the search for it and how that search for truth differentiates people and makes them more unique and less boring. I believe that religion exists because people know that the truth of God is there, but in their sinful state, their knowledge of God is clouded and distorted to reflect worship in mankind, whether that is blatant or hidden by a mask of a divine representation of man. I believe that the Bible reveals the truth about religion as a whole and the goal of religion, which is knowledge and worship of the one, true God. [/color][/quote]

I'm not quite clear on how you go about having Faith in something True.

I mean, it strikes me that if you (or anyone) knows absolutely that something is inarguably the Truth/Right/Correct etc., then that doesn't leave a lot of room for Faith.

I don't have Faith in Gravity, for example, because I know that it is an inarguable aspect of my current Experience here on Earth. Maybe Gravity has Faith in me, but that needn't concern me, if I am aware that Gravity exists for me whether I choose to believe in it or not.

The Existence of God, what form He, She or It takes, and what that God may require of me is a whole lot more ambiguous, at least for me. I appreciate that there doesn't appear to be any such ambiguity for you, and what I admire about you is your concrete resolve in sticking to what it is you believe in - what it is you have Faith in.

You don't need to have Faith in what you believe to be the immutable Truth, but only as far as you are concerned. To the outside observer though, it is evident that you are using Faith to bridge some of the gaps that exist in the *OBJECTIVE* validity of what you believe to be the Truth about Existence.

In the absence of empirical and objectively verifiable evidence about what you hold to be True about Existence, you become personally invested in maintaining the paradigm that is the framework for your Existence. At that point, your Faith becomes a personally self-reinforcing activity, rather than just a pathological aspect of your personality. I think that this is what irks a lot of people around here, and also, what compels you to keep arguing the case for what you believe to be True.

I am definitely one of those people who believe that the Journey is infinitely more important than the Destination.

I believe that ultimately, that each one of us will reach the Destination is inevitable. What makes each of us a unique and vital facet of Existence is *HOW* each one of us gets there, and perhaps, how long we take.

Not that Existential punctuality is important to Whomever or Whatever has Created the Existential Framework for our individual, Eternal Existences; but I think it is important to ourselves that we don't have to keep repeating the same lessons over and over again.

But that is just what I Believe, just what I have Faith in.

I accept that I may have got it arse-about-face, may have missed the mark completely. But that's why I have, and why I use my Faith.

[face_peace]