In Reply To #82

In Reply To #81

In Reply To #80

ROTC represents everything many Leftists hate about their country (Patriotism, Military Strength, Nationalism...)...

Fascism, in other words.

There you have it!

If you love your country's traditions, culture, strength, and achievements - you are a fascist!

See what you did there Foota?

In the first quote, you talk about Leftists hating "(Patriotism, Military Strength, Nationalism... [sic])".

Then, I point out that those are all the hallmarks of Fascism (and "Leftists" are kind of obliged to hate Fascism).

Then YOU respond as though I'd called loving your country's "traditions, culture, strength and achievements", hallmarks of Fascism.

Why did you do that Foota?

If you'd said in your first quote:

"ROTC represents everything many Leftists hate about their country (Traditions, Culture, Strength, and Achievements...)"

Then I, and doubtless everyone else would have called you out for talking clap-trap.

ROTC and "Culture"? ROTC represents American "Traditions" and "Achievements"?

Only if you restrict that to America's MILITARY traditions and achievements; otherwise, those qualities can be and are better represented by other elements of American Society: not least the student population.

In fact, the only quality in your second pass, represented exclusively by the ROTC: IS Military Strength.

Now then Mr. "I'll-add-'Fascist'-impulsively-to-any-ideology-I-don't-like".

Like any form of political ideology, "Fascism" is not an exact measure; mostly because people don't like being called "Fascist", and so invariably blur the exact definition, in an attempt to avoid the label.

So, like most political definitions, in the absence of definitive qualification, one has to look to Consensus, to see what the term is GENERALLY understood to mean.

And if you want to know what the Consensus understands these days, there's no better place to look than Wikipedia. :)

"Fascism considers individual and other societal interests subordinate to the needs of the state, and seeks to forge a type of national unity, usually based on, but not limited to, ethnic, cultural, or racial attributes. Various scholars attribute different characteristics to fascism, but the following elements are usually seen as its integral parts: nationalism, authoritarianism, statism, militarism, totalitarianism, anti-communism, collectivism, corporatism, populism, and opposition to economic and political liberalism."

Does any of that sound familiar?

Nationalism? Militarism? Collectivism?

Aren't these the qualities that you described in your first post as being represented by the ROTC?

I don't see respect for tradition and culture in that definition.

Now authoritarianism: isn't that what we've been talking about in the "tasered student" threads? What about statism and collectivism? Corporatism and populism?

Anti-communism?

You pull out three of the hallmarks of Fascism - Nationalism; Militarism; and Patriotism (statism and collectivism) - and I call them what they are.

*THEN* you respond by changing your words to "traditions, culture, strength and achievements" (which ideology or Society does *NOT* define itself by its "achievements"?); and behaving as though I'd called *THOSE* qualities fascist.

Why did/do you do that Foota?

I couldn't help but notice the rhetorical flourish you began with:

"There you have it!"

Who were you addressing that comment to Foota? Which section of or individuals in the =PBF= Community were you talking to?

It strikes me that since I handed your arse to you on a plate last week, you have been putting a lot of energy into trying to reassert your relevancy and credibility to this Forum.

Unfortunately, you have chosen to use the most obnoxious and disagreeable aspects of your personality/ideology (same difference) to do this.

Hysterical posturing; specious and combative responses and "rebuttals"; lurid and voyeuristic descriptions of the worst excesses of "America's Enemy" (with no mention of America's excesses); futile attempts to shore up the battered and wholly discredited reputation of the United States of America.

Photos of people about to be hanged Foota?

Why, it's like you're trying to stir up peoples' negative emotions, so that they disconnect their rationality and intellect; and diminish their ability to discuss important and relevant Current Affairs, in an objective and emotionally-detached way.

Just because it has been done to you Foota, doesn't mean you can do it to Everyone Else.

Peace