In Reply To #176

In Reply To #174

It is the Essence of Debate Foota.

You have all along maintained the position that Iraqi Oil was an incidental, circumstantial factor behind the Invasion of Iraq. And you have, all along, dismissed any idea that Iraqi Oil was key to the Invasion of Iraq; and ridiculed and denounced anyone who ever suggested same. As my quotes of your archive posts clearly show.

Still have it wrong - I have maintained all along that the reason to enforce 17 UN Resolutions on Iraq was not motivated by an oil grab or to profit off of Iraq's oil.

In Reply To #48

In Reply To #45

Even our own Foota doesn't dispute it:

In Reply To #16

If the ME did not have oil, they would be as relevant as sub-Saharan Africa.  And just as ignored.

There you have it.

If Iraq did not sit atop the oil and gas reserves it does: the Bush Administration would *NOT* have invaded.

Agreed.

But not because we are trying to steal, "control", or otherwise profit from Iraq's oil supplies. There would have been no Gulf War I if Iraq and Kuwait did not have oil.  This fact seems to surprise and confound people like Traci and Steelhed.

In Reply To #73

In Reply To #59

In Reply To #54

Straight question Foota:

Would the U.S. have invaded Iraq in 2003, if Iraq didn't have the huge oil and gas desposits it has?

Nope.

Because oil revenue is what made Iraq (under Saddam) so dangerous for the reasons I have detailed 2 times already on this thread.

In Reply To #174

2 Questions Foota:

Did the Bush Administration invade Iraq to take control of those oil revenues from Saddam Hussein?

You can't answer that question, can you Foota.

To do so, invalidates your entire position.

Several posters have already pointed this out to you on this thread.

No Foota.

Clay Moore and Vax took up their predictable station at your ideological side. They are merely repeating what you are saying.

Neither you, Clay Moore or Vax can answer "No" to the Question above; nor can any of you answer "Yes".

This is because you have all three of you brought into the same propaganda. You all share near identical views, and believe yourselves to be passionate and patriotic Conservatives.

Superslacks crept out of the shadows with what he thought I was over-looking. And because he's not blinded by a brainwashed devotion to the Bush Administration, he was able to both see that I'd already acknowledged your (and Clay Moore and Vax') "Defence"; AND the Real Pertinence of my Question to your position.

And, uh, that's it.

By contrast, Everyone Else supports my position, including guys like Mad Cat and Steelhed, who are *NOT* what you'd call *MY* ideological bed-fellows.

You, Clay Moore and Vax (and I'm sure they'll thank you for bringing them into it), stand alone in still believing and maintaining that:

The Invasion and Occupation of Iraq was primarily a Humanitarian Intervention; facilitated and motivated by, amongst other things, the presence of Iraqi Oil. Iraqi Oil made Saddam Hussein a greater threat to neighbouring countries; and there was also the consideration that Iraqi Oil Revenues would also pay (re-pay) for the War.

But they were incidental and collateral factors only: the Primary Reason for the Invasion of Iraq was a Humanitarian Intervention to rescue Iraqis, and the Rest of the World, from Saddam Hussein's Rule.

In the unlikely event that the revenues that Saddam earned from oil, came from the export of timber; and assuming that timber wasn't under International Sanctions, and Saddam was continuing to benefit from those revenues: you maintained previously, that the Invasion would still have gone ahead.

Do you understand and acknowledge that *I* understand and acknowledge what YOUR position is?

If you do, then you can stop continually repeating your position, in a variety of not-at-all-interesting poses, with pictures.

In this thread, you changed your mind, and acknowledged that without Oil, there would have been no Invasion.

And as Greenspan acknowledged - and you supported: this because the U.S. needs to keep Iraqi Oil flowing, more than it needs a reliable supply of timber.

Simply then:

***Taking control of Iraqi Oil Revenues from Saddam Hussein, was the Central and Primary reason for the U.S. Invasion and Occupation of Iraq.***

Without Iraqi Oil Revenue, there would have been no Invasion.

The idea you believed, was that the U.S. would temporarily take control of Iraqi Oil Production and Revenues, whilst Iraq was stabilised and pacified. Then, through the "Democratic Process [sic]", Iraqi Oil Production and Revenues would be shared between the People of Iraq; and the major Global Oil Production Corporations.

That it appears to be taking longer to pacify and stabilise Iraq than anticipated, means that unfortunately, and just for now, the U.S. continues to be in control of Iraqi Oil Production - such as it is - and Iraqi Oil Revenues - such as they are.

But that's just a temporary situation, until Iraq calms down, when control of Iraqi Oil Production and Revenues will be returned to the Iraqi People; assuming the Iraqi People agree to the Production Sharing Agreements (that don't exist in any other Middle Eastern Oil Producing Nation) the U.S. is trying (unsuccessfully) to impose on them.

So the Situation is:

• The U.S. invaded Iraq, primarily because of Iraqi Oil Revenues

• The U.S. invaded Iraq to take control of Iraqi Oil Revenues from Saddam Hussein

• The Humanitarian Element of the Invasion was a secondary after-thought, tacked onto the Invasion and Occupation, when it became clear that there really were no WMD's

• Without the presence of Iraqi Oil: there would have been no Humanitarian Intervention

• Unable to pacify and stabilise Iraq, the U.S. unfortunately - and to its eternal chagrin, I'm sure - continues to be the Primary Force-Power controlling Iraqi Oil Production (or the lack thereof)

In summary:

• The U.S. invaded Iraq, primarily to take control of Iraqi Oil Production and Revenue from Saddam Hussein

• Four and a half years after the Invasion of Iraq, the U.S. Government still controls access to Iraqi Oil Production and Revenue.

Everyone who knows this, also knows that the primary factor behind the continuing Chaos in Iraq, is the presence of U.S. military forces in Iraq.

If the U.S. withdraws its forces from Iraq, the single greatest obstacle (of many obstacles) to the Restoration of Peace and Stability to Iraq, is removed.

But so too would be the ability of the U.S. to control Iraqi Oil Production and Revenues.

The worst possible outcome of the Invasion and Occupation of Iraq, for the Bush Administration, and the U.S. as a whole: is a Shia-dominated, Iran-Allied Iraq; controlling Iraqi Oil Production and Revenues, in a way that does not benefit the United States.

Yet as you so persistently point out Foota: Shia Arabs are the democratic majority in Iraq.

If anybody should be in control of Iraqi Oil, it should be Shia Iraqis.

But that isn't acceptable to the Bush Administration; nor indeed, Sunni Arabs in Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Jordan, and the U.A.E.

So: the U.S. Invaded Iraq to "temporarily" take control over Iraqi Oil Revenues from Saddam Hussein; before handing that control to a reconstituted and democratic Iraqi State.

But now the U.S. keeps finding reasons to delay handing over that control. Not least of which is the fact that if the U.S. left Iraqis to build their own Democratic Society: the U.S. would *NOT* be able to count on reliable and controlled access to Iraqi Oil.

That's the Reality Foota: and you would do well to acknowledge it, before you slip any further into the Well of Fools.

Peace