In Reply To #108

In Reply To #101

Like any form of political ideology, "Fascism" is not an exact measure; mostly because people don't like being called "Fascist", and so invariably blur the exact definition, in an attempt to avoid the label.

"Fascism considers individual and other societal interests subordinate to the needs of the state, and seeks to forge a type of national unity, usually based on, but not limited to, ethnic, cultural, or racial attributes. Various scholars attribute different characteristics to fascism, but the following elements are usually seen as its integral parts: nationalism, authoritarianism, statism, militarism, totalitarianism, anti-communism, collectivism, corporatism, populism, and opposition to economic and political liberalism."

That is a pretty broad description you have there Holyman.  It lists virtually every human ideology on the planet to describe Fascism.

I believe you can take that sort of disagreement up with the authors of WikiPedia. I was merely using the description to illustrate the consensus view.

Even so:

Even polar opposites:

- anti-communism - collectivism

Not at all.

Communism is the social and political ideology that requires Public ownership of the means of production; rather than allowing the means of production to be privately owned.

Everything else in the Communist Manifesto is secondary to that notion.

Collectivism is the idea that the needs of the individual are suborned and subordinated to the needs of the Collective or State. Whatever the State or Collective decides (democratically or otherwise) is best for itself, is automatically deemed best for the Individual.

Collectivism can be compatible with Communism, or with Capitalist Democracy.

You are forever defending the Bush Administration as the elected representatives of the American People. Whatever the Bush Administration decides is best for America, should overrule whatever is best for individual American citizens.

You have stated regularly, in fact, that the Bush Administration (and/or any other Democratic Government) would be weakened by constant reference to American Citizens, in order to make and take Executive Decisions.

You believe that the Presidential Leadership, once elected to a term of power, should be left unfettered and unmolested by the individual needs and ideas of the Citizenry. Furthermore, you believe that American Citizens should go along with the President, in Time of War; regardless if it may seem to those individual American Citizens that the President is leading them astray.

Therefore you believe in Collectivism Foota; and support a Collectivist Government.

It is just one of the many places that you part company with Mad Cat and Steelhed Foota: this Forum Community's *TRUE* American Conservatives.

Not only do you believe the needs of individual American Citizens should be subordinated to the needs of the United States; you also support the subordination of *NON*-American Citizens,  to the American State.

The *ACTUAL* "Polar Opposite" to Collectivism, is Individualism:

Individualism is a term used to describe a moral, political, or social outlook that stresses human independence and the importance of individual self-reliance and liberty. Individualists promote the exercise of individual goals and desires. They oppose most external interference with an individual's choices - whether by society, the state, or any other group or institution. Individualism is therefore opposed to holism, collectivism, fascism, communalism, statism, totalitarianism, and communitarianism, which stress that communal, group, societal, racial, or national goals should take priority over individual goals. Individualism is also opposed to the view that tradition, religion, or any other form of external moral standard should be used to limit an individual's choice of actions.

Didn't you ever realise why it was that I have more in common with Mad Cat and Steelhed than you do?

It's got fuck all to do with which political parties none of us can be bothered to support.

- corporatism - populism

Corporatism is the idea that in democratic political systems, the Corporation can purchase and wield political power.

You're a political lobbyist for a living aren't you Foota?

The opposite of Corporatism would be a belief that only Organised Labour should wield that kind of power.

How do you feel about Organised Labour Foota?

Populism is the practice of appealing to the broadest possible selection of the populace, with the shallowest of policies.

Populism is neither a Right- or Left-Wing tactic, since Populist policies are, by definition, devoid of ideological or intellectual substance. Rather, they are an attempt to appeal to the Population's vanity, and/or greed.

It is as much about fomenting Class War and Revolution; as it is about decrying the decline in societies' "moral standards [sic]".

Populism is so intellectually and ideologically shallow and insubstantial, that it is hard to find a single antonym for it.

Perhaps it might be Honest Pragmatism: acknowledging Truths that the individual voter might find personally uncomfortable or even painful; and then doing whatever was necessary to sort out that problem.

And no Foota, I do *NOT* mean going to War, when no-one else wants to.

When you are the World's Greatest Superpower and you start a War with another country that only complete idiots could believe threatened you: that is *NOT* a "Tough Decision" that needed to be made by "Someone with Balls [sic]".

It was an entirely Populist policy.

Remember: it was supposed to have been a "Cakewalk War". It was supposed to be over by the time they held the planned celebrations with the Chimpanzee in the flight suit.

The World's Greatest Superpower, designed to and easily capable of fighting two major Wars independently of each other; versus Iraq.

I wonder what odds you would have got at a book-maker the day before the Invasion, if you'd tried to bet AGAINST a U.S. Victory?

I suppose it's just a question of Time...

No Foota, Un-Populism would be telling the voters things that they're *NOT* going to like to hear; things they are NOT going to be able to get their swelling national pride behind supporting.

Things like: the Economy is Fucked.

Things like: your general standard of living has fallen far behind that of other comparable Economic Societies; you need to stop your children killing each other; you need to rebuild your manufacturing and technology base; you need to find jobs for a *LOT* of your People; you need to stop doing the damage you are, to the Environment you rely upon to Exist.

You need to show that you can take care of your OWN citizens; before the World will believe you can take of Others.

Those are the kinds of things that the political leaders of the Strongest, and most apparently able Nation on Earth, should be telling its citizens.

It strikes me that since I handed your arse to you on a plate last week, you have been putting a lot of energy into trying to reassert your relevancy and credibility to this Forum.

You handed my ass to me with your yes/no oil questions?  Please.

Not mentioning any names, but I think I got sufficient defense on that debate topic from some of PBF's more sober and reasoned contributors.

If you want to continue that boring topic, I am certainly game.

Cool. :)

You had me worried for a few days there.

You and *I* have a way to go yet before I'm done with you. ;-)

Photos of people about to be hanged Foota?

Why, it's like you're trying to stir up peoples' negative emotions, so that they disconnect their rationality and intellect; and diminish their ability to discuss important and relevant Current Affairs, in an objective and emotionally-detached way.

You seem more upset at me offending the tender sensibilities of the PBF'rs then the poor homosexual victims being executed by the Iranian regime.  You have shown more sympathy with Tazer-boy then these poor Iranian victims.

Nice try Foota.

But I couldn't give a fuck about the sensibilities of other PBF'rs, nor less to those "poor homosexual victims being executed by the Iranian regime".

At least they are dying for a good cause.

And there are plenty of posters around here who will and do post more lurid pictures than the one you posted. You can't even see the eyes of the condemned men in your pictures. How are you supposed to know what Death looks like, if you can't see Him reflected in the eyeballs of someone who has just met Him?

No.

I just thought it was a bit beneath *You*.

A bit Populist, in fact.

Peace