This morning, two children in West Yorkshire will spend the first day of the rest of their lives without their mother.

In the rush to load-up this tragedy with our own emotional and social baggage (something I am about to do...), we would do well to remember that.

We will all soon move onto the next tragic incident in our World, which we will also try and shoe-horn into the context of what we each personally believe, "...Is Wrong With This World". And our outrage about this particular crime will be stacked and filed along with all our other outrage. Our (currently) heartfelt sympathies for the family of the late Jo Cox, MP will evaporate, and join the cloud formed by our sympathy for dead Orlando clubbers, Syrian toddlers scraped off Turkish beaches, and tourists raining down from skies above Ukraine.

But for those two children, the after-effects of this particular incident will continue to cast a shadow over their lives for much, much longer...

Unlike these two children, I am free to move on when I feel like it. My emotional connection to this tragedy is a purely optional affair on my part (though undoubtedly encouraged by the British Media and Government). I have the luxury of choosing the degree and duration of the empathy I feel for the family of Jo Cox. I wonder how long it will last? Will it even survive this cathartic writing process I am currently engaged in? Difficult to say...

Difficult even to say if my current empathy for these two children will project any humility into what I am writing as a result of the sudden and tragic death of their mother.

I wonder what kind of person that makes me?

Apparently, according to the instructions I received from the British Media this morning, we are all to "Unite Against Hatred". (I am assuming that I am included in the "We"; but the precise qualifications for inclusion in that Collective are not explicitly defined...)

I don't have any problem at all with the "Unite" bit... It's the "...Against Hatred." bit that is puzzling me.

It sounds very much to me like an injunction to... Hate Hatred. And I am really not that confident that I, or many of my fellow Citizens are going to be able to process that sort of philosophical conundrum.It is alright for our American cousins, they have been raised on notions like, "Freedom is not Free", and do for the most part appear to have internalised such exhortations with only minor psychological discomfiture. But asking axiomatically suspicious Britons to accept that they have to "Hate Hatred", might be a tougher sell.

Not, I hasten to add, because British People are above hatred, and certainly not above hatred of "The Other". "Hatred of the Other" is basically a National Sport within this Island Race, with actual football - and other games - merely providing some ritual form of justification for the hatred.

No, it's the "Hating Hatred" bit that I fear my fellow citizens are going to get stuck on. Some bright spark will point that out to be a recipe for hating one's self. And for the most part, hating just about every other Brit... On account of the love of hatred being such a key component in our national character.

(I did say it was a philosophical conundrum... Though I haven't yet completely forgotten about those two children whose mother was just killed by hatred... I should get back to them. I felt much better writing about their love for their mother, than about the hatred that killed her.)

It is absolutely tragic that these children will never again feel the warmth of their mother's embrace; though I am equally certain that the Love between them will survive eternally.

If we human beings could get our actions together, we would do everything in our considerable collective power to make sure that never happened again to any kids, anywhere in our World.

Certainly not under these circumstances, leastways. Not because some psychopath got so hyped up on Fear and Hatred, that he figured he could go and kill a person who had never personally harmed him.

It is Fear and Hatred of each other that makes us kill. But allowing other frightened and hateful people to make us frightened and hateful, is clearly... Stupid. And can only result in tragedy.

But we should be very clear with ourselves: making us frightened of each other, and making us hate each other, is exactly what our "Leaders" (and those who would "lead" us) have been doing since Time Immemorial. There's nothing wrong with identifying threats. It is quite sensible to take precautionary measures to minimise threats, and to develop and practice responses to threats, if and when they become a reality. And we are never more prepared and able to identify, monitor and respond to threats than when we all work together; particularly when those threats emerge from within our own Society.

But when the steps we take in preparation to meet - or worse, "prevent"! - these threats from materialising, are the very steps that are increasing and amplifying the threats: it is probably time to examine and consider our own conduct, rather than obsessing about the conduct of "the other".

Psychopaths are psychopaths. And there are more than a few of them about.

Unfortunately, and on evidence of body-counts achieved, our leading politicians are clearly the biggest psychopaths around. It is just that Prime Ministers and Presidents rarely have the decency to end their own lives after they've slaughtered a bunch of people, like your common-or-garden variety psychopath usually does.

We are constantly being told to hate other people for what they are. Not because of anything a specific individual may have personally done to us, but because of their ideological and cultural association with other individuals who might do something horrific to us.But despite our ideological, cultural and (superficially) democratic association with individuals who are doing horrific things to other people, is it really then the case that we can't understand why those other people might hate and fear us..?The late Jo Cox, MP, never personally harmed anyone. In fact, by all accounts, as well as being a devoted mother, she also worked her backside off to try and heal the divisions between ideologically and culturally distinct groups of people. And that must have been an uphill struggle, given how many of her colleagues were working against her in that regard.But she was a soft target, an easy target. The psychopath who killed her could get to her, in a way that he couldn't possibly have gotten to anyone who might have actually and actively been involved in doing whatever it was that was frightening him and making him hate."We" do the same.Much easier to whip up hatred against anonymous and formless groups of people, identifiable only by their cultural signatures, rather than their specific and individual identities. And much easier to carpet bomb an area (or authorise or support such actions) on the off-chance your preferred target might be there, and overlook the "unfortunate and regrettable Collateral Damage", than to restrain your compulsion to commit indiscriminate violence that must always kill innocent people.When a psychopath decides he is going to kill someone, it really doesn't matter what ideas or injunctions he or she may claim as motivation or justification. A psychopath kills because they are a psychopath. Of course they come up with a "good reason" for killing... That's just how psychopaths operate; that's part of the process. But that doesn't mean we have to try and rationalise their behaviour by linking it to some ideological motivation, which we can then dismiss as abhorrent and unjustifiable... And indicative of those "other sorts of people", whom we must now hate and fear...How can you tell if someone is a psychopath..?Easy: see if they kill anyone.

Even easier: listen to them, and see if they want to kill anyone.If they kill or want to kill anyone (particularly anyone who never personally harmed them), then they are a psychopath.

They are incapable of feeling empathy with the person they want to kill, with the relatives of those they want to kill, and with the innocent people who may be wrongly targeted, and/or caught up (however "unfortunately...") in the killing process.Every ideological, cultural and social group of human beings has its share of psychopaths. The body-counts, and the orphaned and dead children in our World are evidence enough of that.And all we have to do with psychopaths, is try and keep them as far away from weapons (*ANY* types of weapon) as possible... Even if that means keeping some (or all) non-psychopaths away from weapons.But perhaps most importantly of all: we should really stop putting psychopaths in charge of running our Society.Not, that is, unless we really and truly are incapable of feeling and sharing the suffering of children.

***

Stephen Winspear lives in the "United" Kingdom, and loves his children without condition. He can be reached at: stephen@1person.com