[quote="El Sid"][color=#008040]Give an old man some hope HM. Come up with a virile solution.[/color][/quote]

That's the least I can do Sid. :)

To be fair to those who have made previous attempts to sort things out, their intentions were generally good... Even Hitler had good intentions... He just got a little side-tracked with his own personal obsessions...

Thing is, any half-decent ideologue or demagogue can build a Machine for Social Change, the issue is not how ingenious or capable that Machine is: but what you fuel it with.

And with all but only a very few exceptions down through the years, the desire for Social Change has always been fuelled with... Fear.

Fear is what we've got to get on top of. That's the virus in the System. That's what we need an antidote for.

There are many, many practical challenges before the Human Race. But we have proven ourselves quite capable of rising to those challenges in the past, and overcoming them.

Sanitation springs to mind. Time was that we didn't think there was anything particularly problematic about living in our own shit. And I'm talking only a couple of centuries ago...

How could we know that living in our own shit was what was driving all those Cholera, Typhoid and Plague epidemics..? But we figured it out in the end. And having figured it out, we even managed to *EVENTUALLY* overcome all those reactionary types who said that the Science was all hokum, was just a scare story put about by people who wanted to enrich themselves with massive Public Sector contracts to build sewerage systems...

And I note that it was just last week that the U.K. "celebrated" the 60th Anniversary of [url=https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clean_Air_Act_1956]the Clean Air Act[/url], when finally, enough people were sufficiently persuaded that the number of people being killed by the appalling air quality in the U.K.'s metropolitan districts should probably be addressed...

So we might not be quick to act, but we get there eventually, when we set our minds to it.

And there are many, many more challenges for us to set our minds to. So many technical and practical challenges, that there isn't any point talking about a One-Size-Fits-All solution to them.

But the One Challenge that does impact on all the other challenges we face, the One Challenge for which there *MIGHT* just be a single, One-Size-Fits-It solution... Is how to overcome our habitual inability to co-operate with and trust each other.

I mean, that's it, isn't it? That's the Biggie, as far as I can tell. We seem utterly predisposed to identifying and addressing every challenge we face, in the context of: Them and Us.

It is no wonder we are making such slow progress.

It is a dynamic I see in microcosm in most of the organisations I work with.

An organisation is created to deliver a particular service (or manufactured product or processed raw material &c.), usually in this day and age, with the aim of turning a material profit out of the activity.

People are engaged with and recruited to the organisation in order to deliver the service (and make the profit).

All good so far.

Each person involved with the organisation contributes their personal energy to the endeavour. But where and how is that energy directed?

You would think, wouldn't you, that the bulk of the personal energy involved is directed towards delivering the service (or whatever...). But in my experience, it rarely is. More often, any measure of the mental and emotional energy being expended by the individuals in an organisation, reveals that it is primarily directed towards internal disputes and squabbles.

In other words: people who work together spend more time and energy in dispute with each other, than they spend on co-operating to actually get the work done to the best of their collective abilities.

The Human Race does the same thing.

Humanity could resolve *ALL* its current problems with 1/100th of the energy and resource it expends on arguments between its constituent parts.

This isn't "sinful", it isn't necessarily shameful, and definitely not "immoral": it is just Stupid.

Ridiculous. Laughable. Absurd. Beyond satire. The sort of behaviour one expects to see in a kindergarten (if it were adults in the kindergarten, 'cos actually, young children are naturally disposed towards mutually beneficial interaction...).

So that's the Nature of the Problem, and its Cause is Fear.

It is Fear that prevents us from co-operating with one another. It is Fear that causes us to distrust each other. And it is Fear that causes us to kill each other.

So if we're going to get on top of the situation, it is Fear that we are going to have to deal with.