First things first...

Htown: based on my experience of you in our little community here, I can't and wouldn't think of you in the same category as some of our less rational, calm and coherent "defenders" of firearms rights.

I'm not really joking when I say that the U.S. doesn't have a problem with guns: it has a problem with homicidal psychopaths. But your whole demeanour Htown - particularly the fact that you don't tend to take things quite as seriously as some others - makes me feel quite comfortable with the idea that you are a responsible owner and user of firearms.

It's the more hysterical and over-sensitive types like SomeGuy and Alaskan_Viking that I'd feel very nervous being around, if they were armed with pretty much anything...

When I was working in Atlanta during the Olympics in '96, I worked alongside a bunch of guys who shared the same kind of fetish with weapons as SG & AV exhibit - that was in fact one of the chief reasons why I declined an invitation to be sponsored for a Green Card. But there was one guy I met who had a significant and interesting personal armoury; and a calm, reasonable and responsible manner to match.

It's a psychological profile you appear to share Htown.

Meanwhile...

Slacks: that's an important and accurate observation, and very well put.

I think it is useful to consider at this juncture the Truth that the United States is fundamentally governed by Corporate Interests. This isn't Conspiracy Theory: it's invariably proclaimed as a virtue by those who support "Free Market Capitalism", "The American Dream (of enormous personal wealth)" and other related canards.

Every foreign and domestic policy enacted by the U.S. Government has to be approved by the Corporate Sponsors who fund individually elected politicians, from States' legislatures up to the White House.

Behind every cognitively dissonant policy that "Right Wing [sic]" cheerleaders attempt to support, there is a driving and sponsoring Corporate Interest. You just have to "Follow the Money"...

The most obvious is, of course, Monetary and Fiscal Policies that are drafted, imposed and directly overseen by senior Finance Industry figures (several of whom occupy the most senior "Government" positions responsible for "Managing the Economy").

America's Military-Industrial Complex (President Eisenhower's term: not mine) has been directing the application of State Violence both abroad and at home, since the end of World War Two, all in pursuit of the profits produced by continued "Defence" sales.

U.S. Healthcare is the way it is, because of Corporate Interests. The U.S. Penal System is the way it is, because of Corporate Interests. The U.S. Education System is the way it is, because of Corporate Interests.

All the things that "Right Wingers [sic]" support personally deny them benefits, whilst enriching Corporate Interests. Why on Earth would any sane human support such a situation?

Oh, "Right Wingers" don't get it all their own way of course: because the test isn't ideology - it is profitability. That's why abortion is still legal in the United States: because it would diminish corporate profits to make it illegal.

And of course the same goes for Immigration Policies.

You see mixtures of policies that appear ideologically incompatible when you consider them from the perspective of political principle; but when you consider them from a position of commercial profitability: it all makes perfect sense.

And so when it comes to Gun Control/Firearms Rights, this must also be viewed from the perspective of Corporate Interest.

If there were any profit to be made and no profit to be lost in denying Americans' access to firearms, such measures would already have been imposed (and "rationalised" and accepted by the "Right Wing"). But obviously the profit is to be found in firearms and ammunition sales, not the prohibition of same.

The very obvious thing to do in the situation that America currently faces with regard to Firearms, is to significantly increase and enforce the qualification, inspection and licensing of firearms.

American children aren't legally allowed to own or be licensed to use firearms, because this would obviously be too dangerous. In most states, ex-convicts are not allowed to own or be licensed to use firearms, because this is considered to be just asking for trouble. In other words, there are already restrictions in place regarding which Americans are allowed to own firearms: restrictions that are fully supported by the Second Amendment Brigade.

The obvious thing then is to expand the restrictions on *WHO* may own firearms; not dick around with *WHAT* may be owned.

To take our own little sample group: I would be entirely relaxed and not at all concerned if Htown, BigDaddyDrew, or even Foota (at a push...) announced that they'd purchased a belt-fed .50 calibre machine-gun, out of a sincere hobby interest in its practical functionality. But the idea that someone like SomeGuy is legally permitted to own firearms is frankly unsettling.

So the sensible thing would be to have a licensing and inspection regime that let Htown own whatever took his interest; and prohibited SomeGuy from purchasing anything more dangerous than a cucumber.

But such a policy would, of course, limit the profits made by the Corporate Interests that both supply the hobbyists, and feed the fetishists.

None of this pseudo-intellectual poppycock about "Second Amendment Rights" makes any sense at all, when considered against the backdrop of the real and practical problems that American Society faces in the 21st Century.

But put it in the context of Corporate Interest, and it all becomes patently obvious.

:>_