[quote=txmadcat][quote=steelhed][color=seagreen]Why everytime we have a conversation about whats happening in America do we have Brits chiming in telling us Americans how we should feel about our internal affairs, laws, and personal travesties???[/color][/quote]

[color=purple]You know if this weren't on a world wide forum board I'd have some sympathy with that comment. But it isn't and I don't. Stop with the melodramatics willya?[/color][/quote]

It's kind of a bit redundant these days to talk about a single nation in isolation: particularly if that nation is the United States of America.

So much of what America does, has a tremendous impact on the Rest of the World, particularly in countries geo-politically aligned with the U.S. - like the U.K. and Australia for instance - that it's hard not to pass comment.

Far as I'm concerned, when I'm haranguing people like Foota, Clay Moore and Vax, about the policy enactments of the Bush Administration; I'm attempting to exert the only kind of influence I can, on the actions of a Government that whenever it moves, has a direct impact on my Life.

It is impossible to think of ourselves as part of a separate Community any more; rather we exist in different Regions of the same Cultural and Economic Society.

You know, Texans can continue to consider themselves as more autonomous than any other State in the Union; and they really should. But the cultural and social ties it has with the rest of the U.S. means that it can only disconnect economically and politically.

But maybe that's no bad thing.

What we're seeing a lot of in Europe at the moment, is a much greater attention being paid to the regions of countries like Spain and Germany, and most markedly in Belgium at the moment.

Spain is probably the best example. Spain as a unified nation is only about 600 years old or so; and it is comprised of "nationalities" and regions. These "nationalities" include Catalonia, the Basque Country, Galicia and Andalusia. Each Spanish "nationality" has its own language, and distinctive culture.

In Belgium at the moment, there is a fierce political division between the French-speaking South, and the Dutch-speaking North; mostly centred around the French-Belgian City of Brussels - and de facto Capital of Europe - being on the Dutch-Belgian side of the traditional dividing line between the two Belgian Communities.

And of course in the United Kingdom at the moment, there is a simmering intensity coming to the Devolution Movement for Scotland and Wales that could see the British Union break up much more rapidly than anyone currently anticipates. And in Northern Ireland, now that the "Troubles" have been resolved, all those in Belfast stand staring agog at the Economic Miracle taking place in the Republic of Ireland.

The reasoning goes like this:

If the over-riding and somewhat obvious trend is towards European Economic and Political Union, what purpose European Nations?

In a United States of Europe, what function would the current European National Borders serve, other than possibly as bureaucratic administrative divisions?

Instead of having European funds sent via Madrid to Barcelona, why not have them go straight to the Catalonians? Why route agricultural subsidies for Welsh farmers, through Westminster? Why should Bavarians have to abide by Bavarian, European *AND* German Laws?

With European Economic and Political Union, suddenly a whole tier of Government and Public Servants becomes redundant.

Now essentially, the Europeans are only a century or so behind the, uh, United States of America, in recognising strength in Continental Unity.

The South Americans are currently doing the same with Mercosur, and the African Union trying to do likewise in Sub-Saharan Africa.

The British United the States of the Indian Sub-Continent at about the same time as the Americans began trying to eradicate the native population from the Land that would eventually form the Continental United States. And India continues to be the World's Largest Democratic Society, and an Economic and Political Power increasingly in the same league as the Europeans and Americans.

Now that the United States is no longer the dominant Economic Power on the Pacific Rim, South East Asian nations - including Australia - are beginning to get behind China as the Power to establish an Association of Southeast Asian Nations. With China now exercising greater influence on the entry and operating conditions than the United States, South East Asian Nations are beginning to see real benefits to co-operation and co-ordination.

Russia and China, are of course, like the United States, already Continental Powers.

So we've really expanded the idea of "Nationality" now, geographically speaking. Rather than the traditional national borders we've been educated and trained to respect, the *REAL* borders we encounter are now politically and economically at the edge of continents, rather than countries.

The conversations in 17th and 18th Century England were about the sensibleness of forming a political and economic union for the British Isles. And in 7th and 8th Century Wessex and the Danelaw, the conversations were about the idea of forming a united England.

And so on, so far smaller and so back it goes, until it gets tedious to watch.

But play it Forward, and we actually see that the move from National Entities to Continental Entities, brings us unavoidably face-to-face with the idea that moving to Continental Entities is so obviously a *PENULTIMATE* step: Humans Might As Well Go All The Way.

And form a Global Political and Economic Union.

It makes the most Practical Sense.

OK, you may say I'm a Dreamer. (But I'm not the Only One. 8))

Point is that We, The People of the United States of Earth, are already *LIVING* in a de facto Global Society.

The fact is that our "National" politicians are all conniving with one another these days, on a Global Scale.

In the U.S., U.K., Australia, France, Israel, Iran, Russia, China, India, Brazil, Spain, Italy and Saudi Arabia, we have Nationalist (and mostly Nationally Elected) Leaders, all participating in Global Geo-Political Schemes.

Of all the political administrations running G8 Governments, it is very difficult to identify a Government that is primarily focused on domestic affairs. Of those G8 governments, Japan and Canada probably have the more geo-politically benign Foreign Policies; but even the governments in Ottawa and Tokyo have a significant ability to influence Geo-Political events.

Point is that Global Trade and Communication, most obviously manifest in the Internet, has transformed our individual Nations and Societies into One Integrated Whole already, whether we choose to acknowledge that fact or not.

"No Man is an Island"; and no single Human Nation can ever be truly independent from all the others.

Not any more.

But whilst We, The People, continue to cling to our sacred National identities, we ignore the fact that the governments we elect to govern our own, geographically demarcated Democracies, are devoting most of their attention to trying to govern the World.

If the Full Force of U.S. (and U.K.) Foreign Policy is felt by the civilian population in Iraq, what opportunity do those humans in Iraq get, to democratically influence the policies of the government in Washington D.C. (and London)?

The Bush Administration claims to be using America's Military and Economic Power, for the Good of the World. But if a Democratic vote was taken by All of the People on the Earth, by what margin would the Bush Administration's policies in the Middle East be rejected?

(And they would be rejected.)

Now the Internet affords people like me - who don't get to vote in U.S. Elections - to influence those people who *CAN* participate in U.S. Elections. It's by no means the perfect way to exercise my democratic prerogative with those politicians whose personal decisions, directly influence my Life, but it's the best and most Peaceful option I have available to me.

And it's more of a facility than the average Iraqi has, so I count my blessings.

I don't know which flag I'm morally or patriotically obliged to fly to represent my Self to the World, but I'm pretty sure it's got nothing on it to do with politics or politicians.

It would probably just be a picture of the Planet we live on.

And maybe a picture of my mum and dad. :)

Now, please all stand for the World Nation's Anthem:

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WiMt5_tp8FU&mode=related&search=

Peace