[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]Holyman, why are you giddy?

You seem to be actually hoping (even cheering) for a wider war. [/color][/quote]

Ah yes, but the way things seem, is very rarely the same as... The Way Things Are.

And I think this cuts to the very heart of our dialogue together Foota.

See, I get paid (quite handsomely, as I've mentioned previously) to: Know the Way Things Are.

It's my job, and my hobby, and really, as far as I can tell, also common sense.

You, on the other hand, like so many of your compatriots, seem capable only of seeing what you want to see; only seeing things the way you want them to be.

I can't bluff in my job: my Intelligence Estimates are either accurate, or they are not. I can't push the views I want to push, or spin information the way I want it spun. I can't conceal information that is in opposition or hostile to my agenda; and I can't conceal information that doesn't accord with my own beliefs.

I'm paid to paint as accurate and detailed a picture of What Is Going On In The World as possible. Where the available information is insufficiently granular to produce the complete picture my colleagues rely upon to do their jobs, I am permitted, and indeed [i]expected[/i] to fill in the blanks. The value I represent to my colleagues is not in my ability to fill in those blanks with what I hope or wish to be True; but in my almost unerring ability to accurately predict what information will ultimately prove to be the Truth.

Consequently, I have to have a Real View, in Real Time, of Reality.

By contrast Foota, your view of Reality is diffused and nebulised by your terrorised appetite for propaganda that simultaneously frightens you, as it flatters to deceive you.

The flattery is the constant encouragement of your belief in American Exceptionalism.

You have a very clear vision of a Human World that feels deeply grateful for the wisdom of the Bush Administration; a World that feels immense gratitude personally to George W. Bush and to those, like yourself, who continued to support him, even when it seemed that the Whole World was against him.

You are painfully aware that you do not live in such a World at the moment; but you hold the fervent belief that such a World will come one day, hopefully soon. And when that day comes, everything you have ever said, and everything you have ever stood for, will be utterly vindicated.

And here's the kicker...

The further away that such a day appears to you, the more fervently you believe it will and must come. Indeed, the more unlikely it becomes that the World will [b]EVER[/b] feel anything approaching gratitude to the Bush Administration, the more you [b]NEED[/b] to believe that a day will come when Humanity finally realises what you have known all along, Foota.

In order to maintain and entrench your belief in the wisdom of the Bush Administration, and the efficacy of its policies and actions, you need to skate increasingly faster over the ever-rising mountain of evidence that details the duplicity and criminality of the Bush Administration, and keep your eyes fixed firmly on an End - [b]*ANY* END[/b] - that will or can somehow be shown to justify the means that have clearly been employed by the Bush Administration.

Specifically...

You believe passionately and sincerely in a World where Iraq is an optimistic and pluralistic democracy, with Iraqis aspiring to and quietly progressing towards a similar standard of living to your own. A World in which the example set by Iraq will, in Time, spread throughout the Middle East, and bring a Peaceful Harmony to all People of all Cultures in that benighted region of Humanity. Something like the social miracle wrought by General Marshall in Europe following World War Two will happen, if it is allowed to. The Middle East will be a happy and Peaceful place, and the World will be much safer for that fact.

And...

The Whole World will ultimately acknowledge what you, Foota, have known all along: that George W. Bush is a man of great vision, whose courage and determination in the face of adversity, caused this Social Miracle in the Middle East (and the World) to be able to eventually take place.

Hallowed will thy Bush's name be; and the Whole World will show eternal respect and deep gratitude to the People of the United States of America who supported George W. Bush.

This is what you believe Foota; this is what you have told me you believe Foota: this is what you would have [b]*ME*[/b] Foota.

And so deeply entrenched are you in this Belief in your eventual Rapture that you are forced to ignore and deny any and all information that betrays the plausibility of such Belief.

You Foota, are in a very select and diminishing group of humans; a group of humans that doesn't even include anyone in the Bush Administration, with the very possible exception of George W. Bush himself. It is a group of human beings, mostly male, nearly all middle-aged, and entirely American, that believes as passionately as you do in the above story, and refuses to acknowledge the following fact:

[b]• The Invasion of Iraq was *ALWAYS* about the oil[/b]

Famously, you got stuck on a pike this summer. Following Alan Greenspan's comments about the Invasion of Iraq, and the political inconvenience of acknowledging that it was all about the oil; you acknowledged that without the presence of Iraqi oil, there would have been no Invasion. And you further acknowledged that the essential purpose of the U.S. Invasion of Iraq was to take control of Iraqi oil revenues from Saddam Hussein.

You acknowledged the key and central fact that absolutely everyone opposed to the War has ever built their objections on. And now, you'd rather hope that everyone or anyone had forgotten that acknowledgment. You must hope that, or you wouldn't be continuing to post as though you hadn't previously acknowledged that fact.

No matter, this isn't about that Foota. This is about the fact that in the past, now, and doubtless into the future, you and your ilk continue to dismiss and disregard the central and acknowledged objective of the Bush Administration, in invading Iraq: to take control of Iraq oil revenues from Saddam Hussein.

If there had been no oil, or if Saddam Hussein had controlled Iraq's primary revenue in a way that was acceptable to the United States, there would have been no Invasion of the country with the second greatest reserves of easily-refined oil in the World.

The Saudi Arabian Regime is a far more barbarous and primitive Society than secular Iraq ever was. It is the country that is home to the most literal interpretations and implementation of 7th Century Middle Eastern Social Morality and Law in the Islamic World. It is the home country of Osama bin Laden. It is the country from which came 15 of the 19 people who attacked the U.S. on 9/11. It has the World's greatest reserves of easily-refined oil. And it controls its oil revenues in a way that is acceptable to the United States: mostly by purchasing armaments and weapons from the United States.

If Saddam Hussein had continued to play the willing puppet of the United States as he had in the past, as the Royal Families of Saudi Arabia and Jordan continue to do today; if he had continued to allow the United States to control Iraqi oil revenues, through him: Saddam Hussein would still be alive today.

In heavily arming Saudi Arabia and Jordan, and in ensuring that there is a military force in Iraq that can be controlled and directed by the Pentagon, Vice-President Dick Cheney has, or rather had set the stage for the re-capture of the [b]*REAL*[/b] prize in the Middle East: Iran.

When Dick Cheney was Chief of Staff to President Ford, and Donald Rumsfeld the Defence Secretary, they had Iran in the bag. They had great plans, in the bag, for the role that Iran would play in the coming Resource Wars between Russia, China and the U.S. And then Carter went and lost Iran to the Islamists...

No matter, just as soon as a Republican President was back in office, it was straight to work, setting the Iraqi attack dog, Saddam Hussein, on the so-called Islamic Republic of Iran. For eight years, Saddam Hussein controlled Iraqi oil revenues the way that the U.S. Government wanted it to: by using those revenues to attack Iran.

Only when the Reagan Administration became mired in sleaze, was it revealed that the U.S. Government had been supporting both sides of, and ensuring the continuation of, a genocidal conflict. When the sleaze became apparent, and U.S. support for either side was withdrawn, the Iran-Iraq War ended.

And as the U.S. withdrew its support from its attack dog, Saddam Hussein, it lost the ability to control him.

President George H.W. Bush's [b]ACTUALLY[/b] wise head famously prevailed in the "Battle to Decide to Take-out Saddam Hussein Once and For All!", much to the chagrin of then Secretary of Defence, Dick Cheney, and of course, Donald Rumsfeld, who went off and founded the "Project for a New American Century".

Then, whilst the United States, and the U.S.'s lap-dog in Europe, the U.K., maintained genocidal sanctions on Iraqi Society, by vetoing every attempt to suspend the sanctions in the Security Council...

Bill Clinton was impeached for lying about a blow-job.

And in 2000, George W. Bush apparently won the Presidency of the United States of America.

And I think you know the rest Foota.

It's about oil Foota. It's about controlling access to oil Foota. It's about making sure that no-one else can access the oil, Foota.

It has nothing to do with Democracy Foota. It has nothing to do with stopping terrorism Foota. It has nothing to do with Human Rights and Social Dignity, Foota.

If Iraqi and Iranian oil revenues could be controlled and relied upon in more or less the same way as Saudi Arabian oil revenues, then there would have been no Invasion of Iraq, and Iran would not have been threatened.

If the Saudi Arabian Royal Family controlled and dominated Iraq as it dominates Arabia, then there would have been no Invasion. Because the Saudi Arabian Royal Family are friends of the U.S. Government; and can be relied upon to control Saudi Arabian oil revenues in a way that suits the United States Government (mostly by buying armaments and weapons from the U.S.).

As ever, the People of the Middle East are played with as pawns, in the Grand Strategic Game between the Great Powers: in this case, the U.S., Russia and China.

That you refuse to acknowledge this Foota, does not mean that the People of the Middle East, and indeed, the People of the Rest of the World do not.

Most of the People in the World are only too acutely aware of the facts that you choose to ignore.

The World is not as you wish it to be Foota; nor will it ever be.

The World is a [b]*REAL*[/b] place, with Real Humans, trying to live Real Human Lives. And just because you think you're privileged enough to dictate to others what the correct standard of living is; the fact that you have to use violence to impose your will on others, should give you a clue to how un-persuaded people are by your stated ideals, and your expressed views on "Reality".

I do not find any glee in the prospect of a conflict between Turkey and Kurdish Iraq, as you know.

But do I find optimism in the possibility that you could be proved so spectacularly wrong that even YOU could no longer deny to yourself the complete failure of the Bush Administration?

Of course I do.

From where I'm sitting, the Bush Administration is in the process of getting away with the greatest criminal embezzlement in Human History.

Whatever the reasons, justifications or explanations for the Invasion of Iraq and the threats against Iran thwarted only by a near-coup in the American Intelligence Community; the Truth is that whilst Babylon burned, the wealth of the United States of America has been entirely stolen from its People.

You should skip the Foreign and International Pages Foota, and focus more on the Finance and Business Section: you have been [b]*COMPLETELY*[/b] suckered.

Peace