In Reply To #51

Yeah, and look how hard it was to "unite" a bunch of white boys who were mostly the same religion and general ancestry.  Even then you still had Catholics and Protestants blowing each other up through the 20th century.  Do you really think it is analogous to "uniting" people from literally all over the world?

As usual Foota, you've gone and missed the whole point of my sermon... Sorry: post.

Though it has to be said, not as spectacularly as Steelhed. But I think that's because he's using the same macro-programming language as EvilFitch. :)

Culture matters.

I agree completely.

Nationalism however, does NOT matter.

Because let us be fundamentally clear here: we're talking about Nationalism - not Culture.

Now Foota you, like many of your cohorts, can be forgiven for confusing the two, because you've been raised in a Society where the only resident culture is Nationalism (or Fundamentalist Christianity: which amounts to about the same thing).

Meanwhile, over in the Rest of the Civilised World, we recognise that "national boundaries" are simply abstract devices used to delineate the scope of separate autocratic powers. We also recognise that the concept of Nationhood is not much older than, well, your country Foota. Prior to the 18th Century, your average human being couldn't even spell "Nation", much less grasp what it meant as a concept. No, not up until the 17th Century Westphalian agreement, do even the noble houses of Europe begin to distinguish their selves from each other by anything other than bloodline.

No, Nationhood as a theory is about as old as Capitalism; so is all the crap that goes along with it like: territorial integrity; Earth resource ownership; social identity... The usual bollocks. And, to most of us, Nationalism is at best, a background idea; something that floats there waiting to find a useful purpose. Beyond knowing what to write in the "Nationality" box of the many and varied bureaucratic forms we are forced to fill out; it's hard to think of what kind of useful, day-to-day purpose the idea of Nation-hood serves.

Especially given the numerous and bloody negatives associated with it.

No Foota, I was trying to build a kind of ascending trope in my previous post; ascending chronologically to illustrate the absolute and total inevitability of Global political and economic union. I didn't even get around to mentioning that I'll be very surprised indeed if I don't see that Union in this Life Time.

Most people, most actual human beings, identify with themselves, and with their family and friends (also actual human beings). It's all actual conversations, actual social tuition, actual practical education. All actually going on, really. In reality.

Now, for those most of us, we find that figuring out who we are, our Self, is time-consuming enough. Where we fit in our family, how we feel about the people close to us - figuring out how they feel about us - is all plenty activity enough. And you know, for most of us, though we see that activity on pretty much a sliding scale, differing from culture to culture; fundamentally, we see it as a very common human activity.

What I mean by that is, whether you're a goat-herder in Outer Mongolia, a cab-driver in the UK, or a refugee in Iraq, you're going to be facing more or less the same personal issues.

You know... It starts with things like water and food, then moves on up through a heady mixture of sex and health, to things like paying the rent and trying not to get shot. No real difference wherever you are.

And, as a human being, you've invariably got some faceless autocrat masquerading as some political or religious messiah. He and his coterie of advisors are all going to be engaged in "Very Important Things", apparently looking after your well-being, and trying not to get caught out. You're sure it's all very important and all that, it just seems so self-serving and counter-productive.

Whatever, you've almost certainly got your own shit to worry about.

See, that's what life is like for the average human being Foota. Doesn't matter whether they are in Ulan Baator, London or Baghdad. It makes no difference to them, whether their "Leaders" are at the municipal, regional, national, continental or International level. Just so long as they can keep their arguments to themselves, and they can get on with their lives.

These are Foota, the True Silent Majority.

These are the people who really, really, really, most frequently silently, but always really absolutely: could not give a flying fuck about politics or collective ideological agendas.

They just want to get on and live their own lives, deal with their own problems, and celebrate their own successes. With people they actually like. As opposed to politicians and religionists and their like, who most of us wouldn't stop to piss on, if they were on fire.

Now, I know what you're gonna say Foota:

"Bwhat they SHOULD care! They MUST get involved! For their own SAKES, Goddammit!"

But hold your horse a mo there hoss. I'm not saying that people such as these carefree gad-a-bouts do not care, or are not involved in the Social and Political Process.

Some of us are very much more involved than you might think. :)

You see, whilst we're more than happy to let you argue your Self into whatever social stereotype you care to adopt old bean; and you know, if you want to slug it out with your friends who are bent on the same ends...

You are really beginning to disrupt things for Everyone Else.

The problem is that all your posturing, head-butting and tusk-wrestling has gotten far too out of control; and those of us who prefer more intimate lives, are finding it very difficult to get any Peace.

Now then, you are probably right now forming your retort to that flight of consciousness-prose Foota. And doubtless you'll accurately include a drug reference or two. But it did have purpose. It was to try and give you an inkling of how "You" look from the outside (by "You", I mean the Nationalist archetype you so helpfully portray around here Foota :)).

"You" exist, because you believe that an "Other" exists.

You believe that you need to be politically active and aware, because you are facing an opposition that needs to be countered.

I'm sure you initially agreed with my idealism, as expressed in my view of the average desires of the average person. But then you moved swiftly on to crush in your own mind, any spark of vitality that idealism may have brought with it. And the answer that you probably crushed it with was, that you would happily live in Peace...

If only the Other guy would too.

Let's look at the List as it ascends:

"You" have to support and exist as a Republican; because there are "Others" who exist as Democrats. And if "They" got their way... Well!

"You" have to exist as a Conservative; because there are "Others" who exist as Liberals. And a Life in a Society run by Liberals doesn't bear thinking about!

"You" have to exist as an American; because there are many, many "Others" who exist as Foreigners.

"You" have to exist as a Secular Westerner; because there are many, many, many "Others", who exist as Primitive Zealots.

And, certainly since 2001, it's been those last two categories you've really had your mind fixed on. See, no matter how zany or idiotic those Democrats and Liberals get; they're quite unlikely to threaten your Life in any immediate way. Those Foreigners and Primitive Zealots on the other hand...

Well! It didn't ought to be allowed!

(It isn't, Foota.)

My point Foota, is that the "Other" only exists, because "You" exist.

If "You" want the "Other" to disappear; "You" will have to disappear.

Think of it like looking in a mirror, and seeing your worst Fears reflected back at you.

Or, think of it like this:

It is very well documented that the enemies the United States of America is fighting today; are its former allies and henchmen from, well not really very long ago. The US, very, very literally - though entirely inadvertently - created its own enemies. Furthermore, the more it tries to fight those enemies today: the more enemies it seems to create!

Funny that.

Why, it's like the more the United States tries to rally people to an offensive and downright ugly military adventure - using patriotism and what's left of National Pride: the more people seem to rally to the "Other" side of that adventure! Bah!

Everything just seems to backfire.

The more barbaric the "Other" side gets; the more barbaric "You" get. The more "You" accuse the "Other" of being oppressive and undemocratic, the more oppressive and undemocratic "You" get.

The more "You" tell Everyone Else to hate the "Other"; the more Everyone hates "You".

Is a pattern emerging here?

"Other" Nations exist because "Your" Nation exists Foota.

The only way to make "Other" Nations disappear; is to make "Your" Nation disappear.

There really are only two methods for attempting this, and one of them, "Empire", has always failed (and believe me Foota, far finer minds than Dick Cheney & Co. have tried to make all Nations disappear under Empire before).

The only other method, has yet to be tried on a Global Scale. Can't imagine why not.

The only way to make "Other" Nations behave their selves; is to behave "Your" self.

And the only way to make "Other" Nations disappear; is to abolish the idea of separate nationhood amongst Humans.

Everyone coming together has worked very well for growing societies in the past - kind of like watching raindrops join up on a window pane. Why, even the, uh, United States of America used to be numerous independent colonies, before they saw the Strength in Unity, and learned how to put aside their differences. Now it's Europe of all places, and South America. India, of course, has long been a functioning collective of disparate ethnicities and cultures; ever since the British first lacked the imagination to see the beauty of functional multi-culturalism, and gave the Subcontinent a single identity.

Just can't see what the problem is with going the final mile.

Do away with the whole idea of individual nation-hood, and recognise the inevitability of Global Human Social and Political Union (or something with a more catchy title...).

It's the only way to create World Peace overnight Foota. Abolish all national borders. Then all violent conflicts become and are treated the same as violence in our own neighbourhoods. It becomes a matter for Law Enforcement Officers; not military forces representing one human ideological collective or another.

Oh.

And as for Cultural Matters...

Well, anyone who knows anything about True Culture knows it is far too cool to respect The Man's boundaries. :)

Peace