Picking up on a conversation ClayMoore & I were having in the thread about the current upheavals in the Arab World.

I was describing how I'd visited the Vietnam War Memorial in Washington, D.C., and how I understood that it was neither the Time nor the Place for me to be holding forth on certain opinions I hold...

[quote=ClayMooreTPF][color=red]You probably would have pissed people off, yes. They're only human after all because it is, as you point out, a hallowed site. However, they would also recognize that the people who that wall commemorates died for the principle of freedom of speech, among other things. They died so that you could speak your mind there at that wall or even here in this forum.

I wonder what might have run through your head at the time. I wonder if it was anything like what I thought when I went there, that perhaps it might be silly to think that these people really died for anything purposeful - such a wasted sacrifice for foreign people in a foreign land. Sure it's pretty abstract to imagine that North Vietnam ever came even close to threatening the freedom of speech of most of those attending the site. There are those Vietnamese, though, who come to pay their respects who would argue that those men and women did directly effect their freedoms by holding off some pretty horrific oppression for a time. To them, the meaning of the sacrifice is all the more real.

Many of those who went off to war, sons and daughters of the greatest generation that fought Hitler and Tojo, did so truly believing that they were going off to fight for America's freedom. More correctly, they were fighting for it in every corner of the globe. Even the protesters who are out there on the street in the Middle East today fighting for their own ideals of freedom are beneficiaries in some little way of the efforts of those commemorated by the wall, or of the sacrifices of their parents, or even their parent's parents. After all, freedom, like Democracy, is, after all a universal and timeless concept.

I know it can sometimes sound rather idiotic when Americans say something like, "that man or woman died over there for our freedom". A quintessentially American point of view. Quaint and common. I hear it often. I mean, hell, their fallen hero in question might have died on some totally remote hill in Afghanistan a half a world away outside a village full of people who don't understand or even care for him. However, when one is contributing to the universal cause of freedom, it really matters little where they do it. My point of freedom's universality has to be true. Why else would all of us feel such raw emotive sympathy, as we watch our TVs, to those protesters knocking down the Berlin wall; or defying Mubarak and the Ayatollahs; or to Mandela as he walked free; or to Iraqis waving purple fingers. Why do tears come to our eyes for that or lumps to our throats? It's more than just an interesting riot or a casual observation of the daily news. It's simply what we all yearn for and altruistically celebrate when others gain it themselves. [/color][/quote]

This is such a massive topic ClayMoore. It's why I felt it deserving of its own thread.

I've got so many thoughts on the subject, but I don't want to dive straight in with them and kill the thread before it's had a chance to breathe.

So I'll start by clarifying that we are talking here about the relationship between the Governed and the Governors/Government.

And now I'll pose some open questions:

How do we each define the concept of "Freedom" within the context of that relationship?

How do we measure the extent to which we enjoy "Freedom" ourselves?

How do we protect our existing "Freedom", and how do we earn greater "Freedom"?

And a couple of closed questions that will hopefully provoke more than just "Yes" or "No" answers:

Are our measures of "Freedom" relative, and if so, should that be the case?

Can we call ourselves truly Free, if our "Freedom" requires so many sacrifices to maintain?

Like I said: I've plenty of thoughts on the subject, but I figured it best to throw it out there, before I drown the thread in thousands of words!

[face_peace]