Time for a bit of an update, 'cos Helen Mitchell has just got in touch with me/us (more of the "us" in a bit...), and I've just renewed my membership.

Hope you're sitting comfortably. :)

So, after stumbling out of Reigate College following a bit less than a year's worth of voluntary education, I tried (rather foolishly, as it turned out) to join the Army. This, a roll-over from Army Cadets, which I'd joined because I ultimately wanted to be a policeman, and the Police preferred you to have spent time in a uniformed youth organisation, rather than being a glue-sniffer...

But my ever-weak left ear-drum eventually saw me fail, at the basic recruit stage, to get into the Army Air Corps. But since it turns out that I am a committed Pacifist, with an equally committed aversion to authority, this was almost certainly Fate saving me from an uncomfortable Destiny...

I rolled around a couple of beer-money jobs in Redhill (Aerodrome) and Reigate for a year or so, before getting a job on Holmethorpe Industrial Estate, measuring sand...

Fortunately though, after a few months of measuring sand using programmable calculators, I was able to convince my employers (Hepworth Minerals and Chemicals - formerly British Industrial Sand) that computers were the way forward.

This was 1989, and computers weren't quite the ubiquitous presence in our lives that they are now. I'd been tinkering around with computers since my dad bought me one whilst I was still at Reigate Priory. Although we had a "computer lab" at Warwick, it was unfortunately by the bike-sheds, and watching Kieran Sonatun (sp?) and Pete Miers break-dancing proved more enthralling at the time...

However, I hadn't totally lost my interest in computing by the time I hit the Quarry, and since no-one else on the site even knew what a computer was, it was left to me to become the resident expert.

By 1992, the recession had hit the construction industry, and Hepworths were cutting back on staff, and I found myself out on my ear. No bad thing though, 'cos it was such a cushy job, I'd probably still have been there now, if they hadn't made me redundant.

In 1993, I got a job with the NHS, in Tooting (Sarf Lahndon...), which I stayed at for about a year, before realising that there were greater riches to be found in the Private Sector. I took a couple of jobs in the Insurance Underwriting sector, before setting up my own company in 1994, and working as a freelance IT contractor in the City of London.

At about the same time, I moved into a flat in Chelsea, where I lived for a year, before moving to Marble Arch for another year. In 1997, I moved to Pimlico, where I remained until 2006.

In 1999, I began working in partnership with a company called The Nichols Group, based in the West End of London, and have been working alongside them ever since. Nichols is a Project and Programme Management Consultancy specialising in large scale and complex change initiatives, mostly for the UK Government.

I've kept in touch with a few people from the Olden Days. Craig Johnstone and I are still as thick as thieves, and despite his sequestering himself into the Army for nearly twenty years, Andy Fletcher ("Fletch") and I are still really good friends. Fletch works just around the corner from me, in Whitehall, so we frequently meet up for lunch.

I also kept in touch with Abi Hunter-Smith, through the Wilderness Years, and it was through Abi that at the end of 2005, I met up with Shelley Stevenson again. And when we met up again, we both fell for each other in a big way. In a matter of months, Shelley & I moved in to a new home in North London (Arnos Grove), along with her (then seven year old) son, Zacki.

And as of this time of writing (March 2008), we are now expecting our first child together to be born at the end of July!

The 20-week scan seemed to indicate that our child will be a boy, and we're still throwing names around to see which will stick; sorry to disappoint, but it doesn't look like "Warwick" is in contention... :)

Since getting together with Shelley, we've also hooked up with some other Warwick alumni, including Pete Miers, George Cullen and Natalie Walsh. Along with Abi and Craig, we all had a fantastic reunion about a year ago, and are imminently planning the next get together, before Shelley gets too fat to move...

I actually bumped into Mike Fundell a couple of weeks ago, who is now working in advertising, in Soho, just around the corner from my office in Savile Row. So by the time Mike and Fletch have joined Craig, Abi, Pete, Natalie, George, Shelley and I, we'll have a pretty solid reunion group going.

I'm not sure if Friends Reunited will block my E-mail address from this text, but assuming they don't, and assuming many of you may not have a paying subscription to FR, feel free to drop me a line at:

Stephen@1person.com

...If you fancy getting in touch or meeting up with the rest of us.

Love and Peace,

Stephen and Shelley