In Reply To #13

In Reply To #11

Wow, impressive post.  What is it you do in your job/professional life?  I'm amazed at the seemingly vast amount of knowledge you have.

Ah, well, I guess the best way to describe what I do professionally is to say that I get paid to possess a seemingly vast amount of knowledge, and then present it in a simple, accessible, user-friendly way... :)

What that translates to in actuality is that I lead a Business Intelligence team within a management consultancy organisation. I actually work for myself, in that I own and operate my own company, but I'm what we call a "knowledge worker" these days, and I'm plugged into a larger organisation that I'm an associate of, and function largely as that organisation's "Brain".

That means I get to develop strategy for the business itself, provide strategic advice and input to the services the business provides its clients with, and generally make myself useful by always being able to answer any question asked of me, as well as being able to put that answer into whatever context is required.

I should point out that my colleagues don't ask for or expect me to give them the "Right" answer, because they know as well as I do that what the "Right" answer is, is invariably a question of timing. Rather they hope that I will be able to give them a clear and simple explanation of the way in which a particular system works, so that they can navigate through it and find the answer that is right for them, on their own.

It's a job I LOVE doing, and one for which I get comfortably rewarded. :)

Perhaps it is worth pointing out that an "Answer" that someone can't understand is a largely useless answer, and therefore irrelevant. The trick is to express an answer that can be understood, can be used, and is therefore relevant to the person or organisation asking the question.

It is my Experience that everyone is capable of understanding what is going on - since most of what is going on is depressingly simple - it is just that everything is fogged up by confusing jargon and arcane knowledge that it makes understanding very difficult.

Economics and politics for instance are very easy to understand, provided you ignore the overwhelming and distracting quantities of information you're supposed to wade through, and just look through the fog to the underlying systems at play.

The underlying system at play with economics is simply that most people feel they need more than they have; everything else to do with economics flows from there.

Actually, I think what blocks most people from understanding social systems like politics and economics is the sheer tedium of having to wade through all the crap that others have surrounding the basic fundamentals with through successive generations.

If you think about the underlying systems for complex computer games, particularly role playing games and the like, individuals will explore, research and understand the subtleties and complexities with enormous enthusiasm. This is because they have a keen interest in understanding how everything works in a game like "Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion" for instance.

I'm amazed when playing games like "Oblivion" or "Total War" or "Armed Assault", the depths of knowledge and understanding that people gain into these virtual systems.

Now to me, the World, Human Society, is really no different. It's a system like any other, with information flowing around it and in it. If anything, it's much less complex than many virtual Worlds, because the bulk of the "components" of the system (i.e. Humans) are far more restricted in their capabilities than most avatars are in most virtual Worlds.

It really is just a question of researching the World (Game), understanding how the World (Game) System and sub-systems work, and then making existence and co-existence within the World (Game) System as comfortable as possible. :)

Peace