[quote=[CAT]tgrant][color=green]So does that mean the US would pay for more than half of the costs for a world police and in doing so lose their military??  You're going to have a tough time selling that one.

I would be totally against something like this right now.  I like the diversity we've got and I like that different places have different moral codes that they live by.  Police enforce the law of the land and what might be considered human rights abuses to us is perfectly acceptable in Papua New Guinea.  By creating a mandate by which this police force would operate under you're also going to be walking dangerously close to creating a moral code and rules the whole world now needs to live under.  Lots of religions have tried that and it usually doesn't work out to well.

I think we are walking down that path and we'll eventually reach that end but it's a long path and it's not a path we should even think about rushing down.[/color][/quote]

I don't think there is any danger of anyone rushing down this particular path...

Look, it is just a question of scale.

Try to transcend the concept of Nationalism that everyone is so fixated upon.

Individual developed nations, such as the U.S., U.K., France, China, India, Australia... These are all populous nations with diverse cultural attitudes, and internal income disparities.

To pick a stereotypical example that compares with your consideration of Papua New Guinea:

In certain communities in the Appalachians in North America, it is considered somewhat acceptable for siblings to have sexual relationships, and even to produce off-spring. In other communities of the United States, this sort of behaviour is frowned upon - indeed, it is mostly illegal.

Also, there are certain communities of the United States who consider gambling acceptable, whilst others do not.

The point being that within every nation, within every state, within every county, town, village and community, there are different attitudes to different behaviours. The World is no different. It is just the same dynamic on a larger scale.

Same thing goes with material wealth.

Visit any town or city, and you'll quickly identify the affluent neighbourhoods from the not-so-affluent ones. There will be those members of the community who are more engaged with it, and those less engaged; those who contribute more financially, and those who contribute less.

It will be the same story with a Global Nation: the United States may be thought of as the "New York of the World Union"; and Papua New Guinea might be thought of as the "Alabama of the World Union".

It is just a question of letting go of our Nationalistic tendencies, and allowing our minds to Scale Up.

In terms of how a Global Police Force might operate...

Again, try to let go of what the term "Police" might mean.

A "Police Action" is an action that enforces the law.

For a Police Action to take place, the law that will be enforced must first be put in place. If the Force Action takes place without any legal mandate, then it is a military or criminal action.

A Police Action is *NOT* determined by who or what carries it out - what weapons and tactics they may use. It is a use of force that is legally mandated within an existing legislative framework.

Now currently, no such legal framework covering the Whole Planet exists; so any international response to what is going on in Libya will need to be approved by the next best thing: the United Nations Security Council.

Now the United Nations is *NOT* a Global Legal Authority. What it is, in fact, is a Treaty Organisation.

Now most countries, the United States included, have statutes in their own, domestic laws that require that any international treaty entered into, automatically becomes domestic law as well.

So any power that the United Nations has, comes from the fact that its signatory members are required by their own domestic judiciaries, to comply with U.N. treaty obligations and Security Council pronouncements.

The reason why the Bush Administration attempted to get Security Council approval for the use of military force against Iraq, was because the British Prime Minister's legal advisors were all telling Tony Blair that it had to be in place, if Tony Blair didn't want to end up being tried as a War Criminal in a British Court.

The Bush Administration was less concerned with U.N. Approval, but inasmuch as it needed Tony Blair and the U.K.'s support, in order to domestically advertise the Iraq Invasion as an "Allied" or "Coalition Action", it was willing to go along with British attempts to secure a further resolution (beyond 1441) that explicitly authorised the use of force against Saddam Hussein. As soon as it became clear that France, Russia and China would all veto any such resolution, the Bush Administration dropped its attempts to obtain one, though sadly not in time to save Colin Powell's career from ending in ignominy.

Tony Blair then had to do a bit of fancy footwork at home, to try and convince everyone he wasn't acting illegally. And who knows, maybe when the report of the Chilcot Inquiry is finally published, maybe Tony Blair will *NOT* be tried as a War Criminal in the British courts.

We can only hope.

Bringing it up to date (and back on-topic), the reason why no nation or group of nations can do anything about the current situation in Libya, is that no legal framework or international treaty exists that can or would automatically provoke a "Police" response to the Libyan situation.

Neither the United States', Russia's or China's own interests are served by the Gadaffi regime falling to a populist, democratic or (worst of all) Islamist regime. They would rather sit back and wring their hands about their powerlessness, advise restraint and calm, and then hope that Gadaffi manages to restore his regimes rule, without killing *TOO* many people...

The UK Prime Minister *IS* making all sorts of embarrassing noises about "No Fly Zones" and what not, and consequently getting slapped down by Washington and Moscow. But this is only because he rather foolishly allowed himself to be leading a British Arms Trade Delegation around the Arab regimes in the Middle East, just as it was all kicking off.

Now for those not associated or implicated with the Great Power Elites, try and scale things down a little bit.

Imagine that a neighbourhood in your city, county, state or country was kicking off in the same way that Libya currently is. Imagine that a corrupt mayor of say, Baltimore or Manchester, was facing a popular uprising, but was using the local police and/or private sector "Security Contractors" to shoot protestors and secure his own position.

Would our attitude be to view it simply as a "Local" matter? Would we expect our politicians in Congress and Parliament to be weighing up the pro's and con's of intervention? Would we accept procrastination and prevarication?

Or, would we expect that a national security force would respond *IMMEDIATELY*, to take whatever steps were necessary to ensure that the laws forbidding municipal politicians from shooting (or causing to be shot) citizens were enforced?

Right.

But because Libya and Libyans exist on the other side of a larger, but still entirely conceptual and physically non-existent "border", we feel it is acceptable to just sit back and observe the carnage.

And that is to our shame.

Now I'm not for a minute suggesting that a Global Police Force becomes the single body tasked with *ALL* law enforcement around the Planet.

I'm not even suggesting that there should be a single set of Laws covering the whole of the World.

We already have plenty of models of tiered law enforcement, and regional and local variations in legislation.

I'm not suggesting that a Global Police Force replace any and all existing Law Enforcement agencies: I'm saying that a Global Police Force should replace any and all national *MILITARY* forces.

Again, think of it in a scalable way.

Start with an apartment block or housing development. The communities who live in those locations have a right to develop and agree the by-laws or CC&R's for themselves. These might cover the playing (or rather, *NOT* playing) of loud music, the colours that exterior walls may be painted, or the number of cars that can be parked in a driveway.

You wouldn't expect a breach of any of those covenants or by-laws to be handled by any civil law enforcement agency, let alone a Global Police Force.

Now notch it up a level. The young tearaway, Billy-Bob or Wayne, is caught shop-lifting again from the local market. Is that a matter for International Rescue or the Global Defence Initiative? Should the F.B.I. be called in? Or would it be best to let the local sheriff or community police officer to deal with it?

OK. Now a bunch of Albanian heroin-importers have moved into the neighbourhood and taken over a row of empty housing as their base of operations. There have been gun battles reported with rival gangs.

Do you call in the local Neighbourhood Watch Committee? What about that community police officer who dealt with shop-lifting Wayne so delicately and productively?

Alright, well, what about the Army? Or how about some tactical air-strikes with the assistance of the Air Force? Okay, that might be overkill... How about the paramilitary facility of the regional police authority? Those officers trained in special weapons and tactics? That would seem to fit the bill.

Next up, we've got properly organised crime. The [i]capo de regime[/i] might have chosen your neighbourhood to live in, but he knows well enough not to shit on his own doorstep, so he won't be caught doing anything red-handed. Chances are his criminal activities are carried out by subordinates, over a much wider area, across different counties and states.

Even the most well-intentioned Citizens' Vigilance Committee is going to struggle here; as likely will the municipal police authority. Probably time to call in a Federal Law Enforcement Agency, or a National Criminal Intelligence Service.

And now - and finally - in our Brave New Global Nation, one of the member states of our Union is kicking *RIGHT-OFF*. The local Law Enforcement Agencies have been turned *AGAINST* the citizens, by the Governor/Monarch/Grand-Poobah of that State.

Who we gonna call? Ghostbusters?

A Global Police Force with an internationally legal mandate could and would only ever function against the kind of abuses we are now seeing in Libya, that we saw in Iraq, and which we also see in North Korea, the Ivory Coast, Somalia and other benighted areas of our Planet.

The incidents that would trigger the intervention of a Global Police Force would be obvious and apparent, and the response trigger would be automatic, just as it is when a riot kicks off in our own towns and cities.

There would be no need for any individual nation to maintain a standing military to protect itself against other nations, because that protection would be provided by the Global Police Force. This would deliver *HUGE* savings, in terms of the amount of money that our nations currently spend on "Defence". More than enough to cover the costs of instituting and maintaining a Global Police Force.

And perhaps most importantly, it would mean that those individuals who put their lives on the line, in the belief that they are "Defending Freedom" or "Liberating People from Oppression", would actually be doing just that... Rather than merely pursuing the Foreign Policy objectives of their national government.

This all seems to clear and obvious to me. It is a testament to the insidious power of the belief in Nationalism that it is not just as clear and obvious to everyone else.

[face_peace]