In Reply To #6

In Reply To #5

The way I understand it is the American and Chinese economy are so much in bed together, that when one of them is unable to get it up, neither of them can get it up as it makes the whole thing unsexy. Which means when they return from their secret homo love affair and go back to their wives such as Europe and the rest of SE Asia, they pass their depression on and in the end everyone gets depressed.

It's all about the Economy, isn't it?

Hands up if you know exactly and completely how Global Economics functions.

Exactly. That's the point. If someone did know exactly and completely how Global Economics functions, then they would be in a position to control, direct and manipulate the Global Economic System to ensure either complete stability, complete chaos, or that they personally owned everything, with whatever resulting stability or chaos that situation produced.

The fact is that the Global Economic System is about as understood and predictable as the Global Meteorological System. And that's kind of odd, since unlike the Global Meteorological System, the Global Economic System is something that is entirely the product of Humans thinking collectively and abstractly.

Economics didn't always used to be abstract of course, well, not completely abstract anyway. Economics used to be anchored to some very real things, like Gold, and Silver, and Land, and Cows, and other Human Beings. Nowadays though, Economics is mostly a matter of Confidence, and Fiat (which is about the only time you'll see those words together in a sentence).

The "Fiat" bit of course refers to the nature of our economic currency, rather than poor quality Italian motor vehicles. A fiat currency is a currency the value of which is not pegged or fixed or directly related to a precious commodity like gold, but is a currency where the value is "guaranteed" by Government fiat or declaration.

Since virtually all currencies of note in today's World are fiat currencies, this means that the value of each currency is determined not by how much gold bullion is owned by the bank (national or private) issuing the currency, but by how much confidence people using the currency have in the Government (or private bank) issuing the currency.

Because Economics has been made so mind-bogglingly complex and difficult to understand by those who would rather as few people understand it as possible (that would be people who profit professionally from working inside the Economic system - making money from money and the like), I find it's best to use human individuals as the best analogy when discussing Economics.

So, for instance (and broadly), a nation's gross domestic product (GDP) is best thought of as an individual's gross salary (it's not a precise analogy, but it serves the purpose). This makes it easier to put national debt and current account deficits into the analogy of personal loans and overdrafts (though there is much more in national economics that doesn't always fit into the financial experience of an individual).

So let's imagine that Superslacks provides me with a good product or service; I, in turn, give him a piece of paper that says that I promise to pay him say, 100 Holies (whatever 100 Holies are). 'Slacks accepts this piece of paper (which as a commodity, in itself, is more or less worthless), because he has confidence that I am "good for it", even though what "it" is hasn't quite been established. It isn't gold, or any other precious metal or stone, nor is it title to land or equipment I own. It is just 100 Holies. The paper represents title to 100 of whatever value a single Holy is.

Now, in addition to my paying 'Slacks in Holies, I've also paid everyone else in the same currency. So Foota is holding 500 Holies, Spandex has a Holy Grand, and Deanna & Queen Snowy have so many Holies, they can't spend them quick enough.

And, because everyone has such confidence in my Holiness, they start using my Holies to trade with each other. So when Foota buys something that is worth 100 Holies from 'Slacks, that's what he buys it with, Holies, instead of bartering his own trades or services, or using tokens coined from precious metals like gold or silver.

And everyone is happy, because everyone is confident in my Holiness.

But what happens if everyone loses confidence in my Holiness? If all of a sudden, I am perceived to by Unholy? Confidence can take generations to build, but can be destroyed in moments.

Suddenly, all those Holies in circulation are presented back to me, with demands that they be converted into something of ACTUAL value. And that's when the "Run" starts.

The first person to demand conversion of their Holies might, if they are lucky, actually get something that is close to, or actually as valuable as they thought their Holy holdings were. But each subsequent person is going to find less and less of value in the actual Holy economic state to redeem their Holies against. And sooner or later, I'll have nothing of any value left to give, there will be a lot of people pushing a lot of worthless bits of paper around in wheelbarrows, and everyone will be feeling the pinch.

And all because they put confidence in me personally, rather than confidence in something solid and real.

Sounds depressing, doesn't it.

It's more accurately called a Depression.

The last "Great" one we had was in the 1930's, and we're going to have to coin (sorry) a new superlative for the one that's blowing in from the Economic Sea right now.

If you're sitting comfortably, I'll begin:

Speculative "Bubbles" are a natural and unavoidable side-effect of the Capitalist Economic System.

Capitalism is essentially no more than about three hundred years old, as an expressed, articulated and systemised way of operating Human Economics. And the stock-markets of Enlightenment Europe had barely begun to operate, before the first speculative "Bubble" knocked everyone for six. That "Bubble" is known as "The South Sea Bubble".

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_sea_bubble

There are always "bubbles" somewhere in the Economic system. If it helps, you can think of them like air bubbles in wrapping film: you push them down in one area, only to see them pop up in another area.

Speculative "Bubbles" are basically mechanisms in the Economic System that allow money to be created out of nothing. Well, that's not strictly true, the money is created out of something: confidence (again). Confidence that there was gold scattered all over the (easily accessible) beds of the South Seas; confidence that everyone in the World would want to buy, display, wear, eat and build houses out of tulips; confidence that everyone in the World would get connected to the Internet and physically merge with their favourite E-commerce site; and of course, confidence that property prices will just keep on going up indefinitely.

Actually, that last one, property prices, is a bit of a hardy perennial when it comes to speculative bubbles, because EVERYONE knows there is no more certain investment than "bricks and mortar", right?

Well, not exactly. Property might be the least UN-certain adventure, but when you're speculating on the price of the property you own going up in a short-term period, rather than say, over generations, then property investment becomes no more a sure thing than playing roulette in a casino.

Property prices should always rise, but they should always rise in line with inflation, and in line with wage growth. Logically, the price of property should always be pegged to the ability of those who need to live in that property to pay for it.

Where the property market is not subject to intensive speculation, this is the case. The generally accepted peg is that property prices should be on average around 3 to 4 times the average salary. But when the property market is subject to economic speculation, this tether snaps very quickly, and house prices start rising towards the stratosphere, whilst wages remain firmly fixed to the ground.

The situation in the UK at the moment - where the property market has been subject to intensive speculation since the end of the last speculative bubble, "the DOT.COM crash" - is that the average house price is now 10 times the average income.

Now not only does this mean that it is all but impossible for people to get onto the "Property Ladder" for the first time, it means that those who are on it, living in mortgaged homes, suddenly start to believe that they are worth considerably more than they in fact are.

People who bought a house with say a £100k mortgage in 1998, suddenly find that their house is worth £300k or more. Now there's no problem here if people ignore this unexpected and UNEARNED increase in self-worth. Chances are, the property market will settle down of its own accord, or it can and will be brought down to Earth by an increased supply of Government housing stock.

However, as the result of a rather unfortunate nexus between property speculation and the deregulation (and greater Globalisation) of the Financial Services markets, a new breed of credit lenders have actively pursued those with unexpected (and entirely temporary) and new found equity in their property, and encouraged them to either trade-up homes, or re-mortgage to "release" the equity in their homes, to facilitate a more lavish lifestyle.

To summarise that bit - 'cos I realise I was rambling...

People have invested in the Property Market, because property prices are rising so quickly, it is possible to make money in a much shorter term than usual.

Because property prices are rising so quickly and so high, people who already own property have discovered that their homes are worth far more than their mortgages.

Because of this, people are either selling their homes, paying off their old mortgages, and using the profit as a deposit on a much bigger mortgage; or, they are staying in their homes, but taking out 2nd and 3rd mortgages to "release" the equity or difference between the value of the property and its primary mortgage.

Those who are buying larger homes with much larger mortgages are only able to do so because National and Central Banks have artificially lowered interest rates. Once the interest rates go back up - as they must to prevent inflation and to attract foreign investment - many and most of these increased mortgages will become unserviceable by those who were enticed into them by their own or others' vanity.

And those who are re-mortgaging to spend cash on luxury holidays, cars and consumer goods, are in fact, removing value from the property market (as opposed to those who re-mortgage for home improvements that increase the actual value of the property).

And all because of a speculative "Bubble" in the Property Market, a "Bubble" that exists in the current UK property market, and to a much greater degree, in the US property market.

What happens when these particular "Bubbles" go pop?

Well, more or less everyone is going to get covered in shit this time, to a far larger extent than in the 1930's, because of the greater level of Global integration.

But... Alas... Time constraints require that this becomes a multi-parter, do I'll leave exactly how and why we're all going to get covered in shit until a later moment. :)

Peace