Ah well, the perils of Democracy are well documented.

Let the poor and the stupid have a vote, and you end up with someone like George W. Bush as President. ;)

I guess that before you can have a discussion on voting rights, qualifications for voting, or what system of voting is used, you've got to have a discussion about what the voting would be for.

But first, I've got to say that one of the reasons why I believe so strongly that a Global Union would work, is because of the results of the experiment that is the American Union.

Think about everything you wrote about New York and Ouagadougou, Paris and N'Djamena, and London and La Paz. Don't Alabama and Mississippi have the same number of Senators as California and New York? The median income in New Jersey is twice what it is in Mississippi, yet both States function well enough within the same Union.

So what is everyone going to be voting on, in a single Global Union?

Well, there would no longer be any "Defence" issues. None of the U.S. States maintain a budget for defence against any of the other States (quiet SomeGuy). No E.U. State uses any part of its "Defence" budget to prepare for War with any other E.U. State. Eliminate the possibility of War within a Global Union in exactly the same way, and not only do you save trillions of dollars every year, but you remove any and all legislative agenda related to "Defence" and "Defence" spending.

No more "External" trading partners, means no more trade tariffs, import or export duties, and no more fucking off-shore tax havens.

As with the United States, most local services would be managed and funded by local government and local taxes. There's no need for anyone in Connecticut to worry about paying taxes to subsidise garbage collection in Oklahoma; and there would be no need for anyone in Paris to worry about subsidising the same service in Buenos Aires.

With a Global Political and Economic Union, you would *HAVE* to decentralise social services and the bureaucracy that manages it.

You get wealth disparity within every Union, within every Nation, within every Region, and within every city, town and village. People who live in the Upper West Side of New York possess the same political franchise as people who live in Brooklyn and the Bronx, yet they obviously have different financial priorities, not to mention widely different cultural values.

It is hard to see what Global issues would be voted upon within a Global Union, where people in its poorer areas would need to be disenfranchised, if things were to run smoothly.

You know, for all the sympathy and concern given to the very rich, for the way that they are pressed upon by progressive taxation, and the unequal burden of support placed upon their shoulders, there doesn't seem to be any signs that there are fewer very rich people. Quite the opposite in fact.

Like you say, it is a simple fact of Life that money and wealth enhance one's clout. So just as the rich somehow manage to survive the constant predations of all the poor people begging or stealing hand-outs, chances are that in a Global Union, those wealthier parts of the Union will be able to hold their own against the poorer parts.

I live and work in London, and so far we haven't yet succumbed to all the poor scumbags in the rest of the country who are trying to freeload off us hard-working metropolitan types.

And I can't really recall any recent legislation where the Poor White British Trash managed to stitch up the noble and refined upper middle classes.

Except possibly the ban on fox-hunting... But even that is looking like it might be over-turned.

[face_peace]