In Reply To #32

No, no, you missed my point.

'T ain't got nuthin' to do with your bringing Dream Theatre into the thread.

I said it was about your being the first to express a negative opinion about Pink Floyd (in this thread about Pink Floyd).

See:

In Reply To #11

Just a quick breakdown. I don't like Floyd, never have...But I am forced to listen to "classic rock" at work most of the time...

Lets say that song is 5 minutes long, and I have heard it 100 times (like Stairway to Heaven, or Freebird, or Hotel California)...That is 500 minutes wasted on one song. 500 minutes of your life turns out to be just over 8 hours. Imagine doing the math for every shitty Pink Floyd, Led Zep or  Eagles song you ever heard. And don't forget the 4 Skinnard songs you hear everyday.

I can't even imagine the years of my life wasted listening to shitty music like this. I thank those who link to stupid shit, and those DJ's on the radio that think classic rock means good rock...Thank you.

In a thread about Pink Floyd, you somewhat obnoxiously aired your negative opinion about Pink Floyd.

That in itself is not a problem: we're all here to air our opinions.

But when you start getting some blowback from Pink Floyd fans (who are just expressing THEIR opinions of YOUR opinion): you start bitching about the fact that you're being given a hard time.

In Reply To #25

In Reply To #23

Are you guys trying to tell me my own personal tastes about music are wrong? IT IS MY OPINION that Pink Floyd sucks ass, happy now.

Why, it's almost like you're just LOOKING for a fight. :)

Peace

In Reply To #34

If I were looking for a fight, you'd know it - there would be some swearing involved, as well as some bad verbal type stuff.

Ah, fair enough.

I think I've used up all my fighting and flaming credit around here recently anyway; so if you did want a fight, I'd just have to run away screaming like a little girl.

My opinion is my opinion, no expression on my face, no tone in my voice. Sorry for voicing it. Next time I think of replying, I will think twice and make sure it goes with the flow of the rest of the replies.

That sounds like a sensible thing to do.

The thinking twice I mean.

I don't think you *need* to "make sure" it goes with the flow of the rest of the replies; I just think it is a good idea to think about whether you really mean to disrupt the flow, before you post.

If you do, that's cool, that's your prerogative; but if that *isn't* what you intend, and you get flamed or busted for it, that'd be a shame.

Keep on truckin'. :)

Peace