[quote=ClayMoore-TPF-][color=darkred]Is it just me, or does it seem kinda creepy that we're all lauding the man for dropping an A-bomb on a city? Granted, the act saved lives in the long run and helped bring an end to the war. Its just that I half expected some of us to try to make him out to be a right bastard.[/color][/quote]

Maybe not "Creepy", but possibly inappropriate.

I absolutely don't think or feel that General Tibbets should be villified for his role in the bombing of Hiroshima. If anything, he was just as much a victim of the U.S.'s rush to demonstrate its possession of and willingness to use atomic weapons against fellow human beings, as the citizens of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. If Tibbets had not been selected as commander of the bomber that dropped the Hiroshima bomb, someone else would have been. The bombing of Hiroshima did not take place because of General Tibbets.

Nor do I think that General Tibbets could have fully appreciated exactly what dropping THAT bomb entailed; either the moral or radiological implications of the bombing: he was an Air Force pilot; not a nuclear scientist. The general understanding of the implications of using nuclear weapons was far more limited then, than it is now.

But I agree with you ClayMoore, that eulogising General Tibbets by celebrating that one single action in his life, is innapropriate, and insensitive to the families of the Japanese people who died in the attack. It also detracts from the more serious and mature understanding and appreciation we now have, around the use of nuclear weapons.

Personally, I think that the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki had nothing to do with forcing an end to World War Two in the Pacific theatre. And here is my reasoning for that opinion:

World War Two was essentially a War with two great powers of the Time - Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan - versus the Rest of the World. It was the last of the great Imperial Wars. Now if it had just been Nazi Germany, or just Imperial Japan, against the Rest of the World, not only would it not have been a World War, it would have been over much sooner. But because of the (at least [i]de facto[/i]) Alliance between Germany and Japan, the combined might of the Allied Forces were split trying to fight on two very intense fronts.

However, following the capitulation and destruction of the Nazi Regime, all Allied Forces were able to focus exclusively on defeating Japan. And this is, in fact, what happened.

By the end of July, 1945, the Japanese were clearly on the back foot, retreating back to the Japanese mainland. There is plenty of evidence to demonstrate that the Japanese desired a conditional surrender that would allow the Imperial Regime of Japan to survive its unavoidable defeat in the Pacific Theatre of World War Two.

In April of 1945, a new Japanese government headed by Kantaro Suzuki took office, with the mission of ending the War. Simply, the Japanese understood that following the capitulation of Germany, the British, Americans and (of more immediate importance) the Soviets, would direct the full fury of their combined might at Japan.

In an article that appeared August 19, 1945, on the front pages of the Chicago Tribune and the Washington Times-Herald, Tribune reporter Walter Trohan revealed that on January 20, 1945, two days prior to his departure for the Yalta meeting with Stalin and Churchill, President Roosevelt received a 40-page memorandum from General Douglas MacArthur outlining five separate surrender overtures from high-level Japanese officials.

This memo showed that the Japanese were offering surrender terms virtually identical to the ones ultimately accepted by the Americans at the formal surrender ceremony on September 2: that is, complete surrender of everything but the person of the Emperor.

Trohan was forbidden by War-time censorship rules from publishing the article when the information first came to light seven months previously. The authenticity of his article was never challenged by the White House or the State Department, and for very good reason. After General MacArthur returned from Korea in 1951, his neighbour in the Waldorf Towers, former President Herbert Hoover, took the Trohan article to General MacArthur and the latter confirmed its accuracy in every detail and without qualification.

http://www.ihr.org/jhr/v06/v06p508_Hoffman.html

In April and May 1945, Japan made three attempts through neutral Sweden and Portugal to bring the War to a peaceful end. On April 7, acting Foreign Minister Mamoru Shigemitsu met with Swedish ambassador Widon Bagge in Tokyo, asking him "to ascertain what Peace terms the United States and Britain had in mind." But he emphasised that unconditional surrender was unacceptable, and that "the Emperor must not be touched." Bagge relayed the message to the United States, but Secretary of State Stettinius told the US Ambassador in Sweden to "show no interest or take any initiative in pursuit of the matter." Similar Japanese Peace signals followed through Portugal, on May 7, and again through Sweden, on the 10th: both proving similarly fruitless.

But such are the details of the History of War. And as we all know, the History of War is always written by the victorious. So let's look at some other, more common sense and accepted knowledge.

The theory is that the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki brought World War Two to an earlier close than would otherwise have been possible, therefore saving lives in the long run. But this suggests that the atomic bombings were a grand strategic move.

There are several reasons why this is clearly implausible.

The first and most obvious is that it was only a matter of a couple of weeks between the Manhattan Project finally and successfully completing the development of the A-bomb, and the bombing of Hiroshima. This indicates that the bombing of Hiroshima was more of a "Live Test" of the Manhattan Project's output; than any strategic attempt to bring a more rapid end to World War Two.

What if the bomb(s) had failed?

But perhaps more tellingly than that, is the History of [b]NON-[/b]atomic bombings of Japan by Allied Forces (principally the United States), before the attack on Hiroshima.

On the night of March 9-10, 1945, a wave of 300 American bombers struck Tokyo, killing 100,000 people. Dropping nearly 1,700 tons of bombs, the war planes ravaged much of the capital city, completely burning out 16 square miles and destroying a quarter of a million structures. A million residents were left homeless.

On May 23, eleven weeks later, came the greatest air raid of the Pacific War, when 520 giant B-29 "Superfortress" planes unleashed 4,500 tons of incendiary bombs on the heart of the already battered Japanese capital. Generating gale-force winds, the exploding incendiaries obliterated Tokyo's commercial centre and railway yards, and consumed the Ginza entertainment district. Two days later, on May 25, a second strike of 502 "Superfortress" planes roared low over Tokyo, raining down some 4,000 tons of explosives. Together these two B-29 raids destroyed 56 square miles of the Japanese capital.

Against the back drop of these "Conventional" air-raids, it is hard to imagine that the Japanese people on the receiving end of such destructive power, were able to differentiate between conventional munitions, and atomic weapons.

Like General Tibbets, the vast majority of Japanese civilians (if not all) can not have been nuclear scientists.

Japan had already been defeated militarily by June 1945. Almost nothing was left of the once mighty Imperial Navy, and Japan's air force had been all but totally destroyed: leaving the skies open for repeated and unimpeded aerial bombardment of the Japanese mainland by Allied Forces.

And neither was it a question of bombing the Japanese people into submission, in order to spare the U.S. and British the inherent risks of, and inevitable Allied deaths associated with, a land invasion of Japan.

And the reason why this was not an issue, leads onto the most likely and probably reason for the U.S. demonstrating its atomic prowess with the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki: the Soviet Union.

American and British Forces simply would not have been required to invade Japan to end the War. This because following the Soviet Invasion of Manchuria, Stalin's Red Army was straining at the leash to invade Japan, and make it a part of the Greater Soviet Union that had been facilitated by World War Two.

As with the fall of Berlin, the Americans and British could have provided aerial cover for the advancing ground troops of the Red Army, for an Invasion of Japan.

Now, can anyone tell me why, after the fall of Berlin, the United States and Great Britain may not have been all that keen to support a Soviet Invasion of Japan in the Summer of 1945?

It is very, very obvious - using simple common sense, but equally well supported by the Historical Record - that even before the final demise of Hitler's Regime in Germany, both Roosevelt and Churchill had turned their attention to the growing threat presented by Stalin's Soviet Union.

On the Grand Strategic Stage, one does not overly concern one's self with a defeated and declining enemy, when there is another, much greater threat on the rise.

My contention then is this:

The atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were not a strategic attempt to bring the War with Japan to an earlier end than would have otherwise been possible.

The bombings were, in fact, an attempt by the United States to prevent a [b]*NEW*[/b] War starting between the United States & Great Britain, and the Soviet Union.

The atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki by the United States, demonstrated to Josef Stalin that not only did America possess the ability to use nuclear weapons, but that it also had the intention and will to use them.

...

There is a strongly arguable case that the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki saved lives in the long-term; but not in the sense that most people understand.

The actual bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki killed less Japanese civilians than had already been killed by aerial bombardment of Japan with conventional weapons. More damage could have been inflicted on those two cities by the use of conventional bombardment, than with the untried and untested atomic weapons: if it was about the symbolism of using atomic bombs, then Tokyo would have been the obvious target.

However, in halting a Soviet Invasion of Japan to complement the Soviet Occupation of Eastern Europe, the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki almost certainly prevented the prolonging and mutation of World War Two into an American-Soviet "Hot War".

...

I think that when we mark the passing of any member of the Warrior Caste in our Society - as we will do on a much larger scale next Sunday, 11th November - we need to do so with the respect and understanding that their actions were at best, an unfortunate necessity.

I think that we are acculturated through the celebration of sporting achievement to perceive and celebrate "The Win", to cheer on "Our" victories, and dismiss and denigrate the "Losers".

But speak with any Real Warrior, like, I imagine, General Tibbets, and you invariably find that such senses of "Victory" are heavily laced with humility and a sense of honourable respect for the vanquished foe.

If we are forced to use violence on our fellow human beings, it is not because we enjoy the thrill of victory, or are aroused by the lamentations of our enemies. Violence must be our last resort, not our first. And when we are successful in the defence of our friends, families and values, we are duty bound to acknowledge that we would have preferred not to have had to use violence in the first place.

Victory in Violence is not something to be proud of, since such Pride might entice us to seek yet more acclaim, through the same means.

I imagine Zissky, that if you have made it thus far through this post, that this is all sounding far more like the Holyman you all know and Love. ;)

TED & I, and many others, have a Long Way to go before [b]*WE*[/b] are victorious in [b]*OUR*[/b] Fight for Peace. But neither TED nor I are afraid to stand in No Man's Land, to point out the Truth that Unites All Humanity.

I'll end now with a couple of verses from two other Human Beings who believed as TED and I do; because their words are so much more eloquent and less mentally challenging than TED's and my words may ever be.

[quote][b][color=blue]"No man is an island, entire of itself

Every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main.

If a clod be washed away by the sea, Europe is the less,

As well as if a promontory were , as well as if a manor of thy friend's or of thine own were:

Any man's death diminishes me, because I am involved in makind,

And therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls;

It tolls for thee.[/color][/b][/quote]

- John Donne (1572 - 1631), Meditation XVII

[quote][b][color=purple]"Bent double, like old beggars under sacks,

Knock-kneed, coughing like hags, we cursed through sludge,

Till on the haunting flares we turned our backs

And towards our distant rest began to trudge.

Men marched asleep. Many had lost their boots

But limped on, blood-shod. All went lame; all blind;

Drunk with fatigue; deaf even to the hoots

Of tired, outstripped Five-Nines that dropped behind.

Gas! Gas! Quick, boys! -  An ecstasy of fumbling,

Fitting the clumsy helmets just in time;

But someone still was yelling out and stumbling,

And flound'ring like a man in fire or lime . . .

Dim, through the misty panes and thick green light,

As under a green sea, I saw him drowning.

In all my dreams, before my helpless sight,

He plunges at me, guttering, choking, drowning.

If in some smothering dreams you too could pace

Behind the wagon that we flung him in,

And watch the white eyes writhing in his face,

His hanging face, like a devil's sick of sin.

If you could hear, at every jolt, the blood

Come gargling from the froth-corrupted lungs,

Obscene as cancer, bitter as the cud

Of vile, incurable sores on innocent tongues,

My friend, you would not tell with such high zest

To children ardent for some desperate glory,

The old Lie:

Dulce et Decorum est Pro patria mori."[/color][/b][/quote]

Wilfred Owen (1893 - 1918), "Dulce et Decorum Est", 8 October 1917 - March, 1918

NB. [b]DULCE ET DECORUM EST[/b] - the first words of a Latin saying (taken from an ode by Horace). The words were widely understood and often quoted at the start of the First World War. They mean "It is sweet and right."

The full saying ends the poem: [b]Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori[/b] - [i]it is sweet and right to die for your country.[/i]

No.

Death is rarely sweet; and no-one's death is ever right.

Peace