Once upon a time, there was a small country called Britain.

Though it was only a small island nation, Britain had once been the Greatest Power on Earth; so pleased with their greatness had Britons been, that they even renamed their country and insisted everyone call it GREAT Britain.

But as Great Britain's power had declined (as all Great Powers must), Britons changed the name of their country to the marginally more humble, United Kingdom.

This name reflected the fact that Great Britain was, in reality, at least three separate kingdoms - England & Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland. North Wales (or Powys) hadn't had a proper prince for 800 years; and the Irish never really let the English properly colonise them.

Now, it came to pass that one day, the whole United Kingdom came under the rule of the Wicked Witch of the North, Margaret the Thatcher.

For twelve whole years, it appeared that Britons really had never had it so good, as the Witch Maggie sold off all the British family silver. She used the proceeds to keep taxes artificially low, and gave away responsibility for running public services in her Kingdom, to profit-making merchants who were grateful to Maggie for doing away with the rights of poor Britons to form themselves into an organised labour force.

Maggie's magical power all came from the True Blue Tories in Britons, who all continued to believe that the Kingdom was still a Great Power - something they thought they had proved when they had slain the frightening Argentinean sea-monster Galtieri, which had eaten whole, two islands worth of sheep in one gulp.

The only power in the Kingdom that could have come close to toppling Maggie's power, was a weak band of outlaws, led by a decrepit old wizard called Foot. Unfortunately, all of Foot's power came from organised labour, most of which the Witch Maggie was busily destroying. After a while, the wizard Foot's followers began to realise that he could never match the power of Maggie, and he was eventually replaced by a younger conjurer from Wales, called Kin-nock.

Kin-nock and his "Labour" Party, where certainly very well placed to usurp the power of Maggie. Pretty much anyone with half an ounce of intelligence in the Kingdom could see that the Witch was hollowing out the country; and maintaining her popularity solely on the proceeds of selling off the machinery that had once made Britain Great.

But with all those proceeds, the Witch Maggie had created a breed of half-human / half-cash beings, called Yuppies. And these Yuppies were easily able to outspend the attempts by Kin-nock and his followers to show that ordinary Britons were being woefully mistreated by Maggie and her Tories.

But nothing last forever. Even the longest and most glittering reign must come to an end one day. Eventually, the Tories turned on the Witch Maggie, and replaced her with the Grey Wraith, John the Major.

And so it came to pass in 1992, exactly 13 years after Maggie had wrested control of the Kingdom from the last Labour King, that the Welsh Conjurer Kin-nock finally had a chance to depose the Tories, and beat the Grey Wraith. But alas, it was not to be.

And he fluffed it.

Big style.

And so, all of Kin-nock's Labour supporters rejected him as their leader, and replaced him with a Scottish magician called Smith.

By this point, Britons were getting so pissed off with the Tories, and their Wraith-leader, that it began to look inevitable that Smith the magician would soon become the new Labour King of Briton. But barely two years after the Labour types had chosen Smith as their leader, Smith suddenly died.

Now, during all these years in the wilderness, three young Labour men had been plotting to see how they could restore themselves to the rule of the Kingdom. These three men were called Peter the Mandel's son, Tony the Bloody Liar, and Brown Gordon.

When Smith the magician died, these three men came together in a tavern in Soho, in Old London Town. They looked upon themselves, and discussed which one of them should become the New Labour Leader.

There were no ideological differences between them: they all agreed that to defeat the Tories, they had to become exactly like the Tories, and re-make Labour into a New Labour that was indistinguishable from the Tories. And so it came down to the issues of personality and style.

Peter the Mandel's son was clearly not a contender, despite being descended from one of the great Old Labour dynasties. Unfortunately, Britons simply weren't prepared at that time to be led by a not-so-closet homosexual. This left the choice between Tony the Bloody Liar, and Brown Gordon. Whilst Peter the Mandel's son could never be King, it was at this moment, in this not-so-salubrious tavern, that he became the King-maker.

Peter's understanding of a new form of magic (called "Spin Magic") meant that he could recognise that Tony the Bloody Liar, whilst insubstantial and something of a political butterfly, was far more suited to the application of "Spin Magic", than the dour and sullen Brown Gordon.

But to get Brown Gordon to agree to Tony the Bloody Liar's ascendancy to the leadership of New Labour, and subsequently and inevitably to the United Kingship, Peter and Tony had to promise Brown Gordon two things.

The first promise was that whilst Tony the Bloody Liar was Leader, and eventually King, Gordon would always be the second most powerful man in the Kingdom: the Treasurer. Tony the Bloody Liar wouldn't be able to do anything of any importance as King, unless he could get Gordon to agree to pay for it.

And the second promise made by Tony and Peter to Gordon was that, after a while as King, Tony would step down and hand the crown to Gordon.

All through the reign of Tony the Bloody Liar, Brown Gordon was forced to wait for that unspecified moment when the King would abdicate. But with each new year, came a new crisis that made King Tony feel that he just couldn't step down at that moment.

Before too long, the supporters of Brown Gordon began to get restless (since as members of the Brown court, they too would receive a surge in personal power at the abdication of King Tony). The first thing they managed to do, was to exact bloody revenge on Peter the Mandel's son, for what they considered his treachery to Brown Gordon. Even King Tony the Bloody Liar's power could not save Peter, as he was pilloried and exiled, not once, not twice, but three times during King Tony's reign.

But the gay blood of the Mandel's son was not enough to satiate the appetites of the Brown followers, and soon they began to agitate for the ouster of the King.

They must have rued the day that their leader Gordon had agreed to go along with King Tony the Bloody Liar's Crusade to slay the Beast of Baghdad; for if Gordon had not done so, they could have used the Liar's quixotic and doomed campaign as clear evidence that the King Liar's reign must end. But alas for them, Brown Gordon was as enamoured of the American Court of Bush, as was Tony the Bloody Liar.

But nothing lasts forever.

Even the longest and most shit-stained reign must come to an end one day.

King Tony's reign became so discredited that even with all his magical skills of Spin, he could delay the day of his departure no longer.

And so, it came to pass, exactly 13 years after that fateful meeting in that Soho Tavern, that Tony the Bloody Liar finally came good on his promise to Brown Gordon. He gave up the kingship, and with forced grace and not some ill-humour, anointed Gordon as his successor.

And Brown Gordon did smile.

At last.

And...

They may all...

...Live happily ever after.

But ever after...

...Probably won't be all that long.

:)

Peace