[quote="Slacks"][color=#008080]*Processing...*

Slowly getting it but still not there.

I was watching Question Time last week for my weekly rage exercise. They had some ex-RBS guy on there don't that PFI to fund hospital building was silly because the government could have borrowed the money very cheaply to get the hospitals built. Why would the government need to borrow money to build a hospital when they could just have created it?[/color][/quote]

Well, that's the very point under discussion in this thread, isn't it?

However, if you are asking why an ex-Banker would suggest/promote Government Borrowing as a means for funding Government Spending... You may not yet have grasped the concept of Banking. ;)

OK, let's see if we can get to the bottom of this.

What is our founding assumption?

That all politicians exist to serve Society and its Citizens' best interests?

Or that all politicians are corrupted by their need to fund expensive electoral campaigns?

We're only talking generally here of course... There are always exceptions to prove that such assumptions can't be The Rule... But on the whole, based on our knowledge and understanding of politicians generally...

Which of those two assumptions is likely to be the more valid?

Alright then, let's go with the one about politicians (generally) being corrupted by their need to fund expensive electoral campaigns... Because that'll make what I'm about to write much easier (and it's also true...).

On that basis then, we can infer that the priority activity of governments is to repay the debt owed to campaign funders, by advancing policies that best serve the interests of those funders.

How could it be any different?

We're talking about Business here: Big Business.

Corporations don't fund politicians to the tune of billions, because Corporations are Socially- and Civically-minded entities, who see promoting the General Good as a higher priority than promoting their own interests.

Legally, when a Corporation authorises expenditure, it must be able to demonstrate that the expenditure is intended to protect and advance the Corporation's interests.

If politicians who are the recipients of Corporate donations refused, failed or just never got around to repaying those donations in kind, those Corporate donations would soon dry up.

I mean, this isn't Conspiracy Theory, is it? It's just a fact of Modern, Capitalist-Democracy Life.

We all know that to be the case, so when we try and pretend differently, we just make ourselves look and sound like fools.

And if we actually *THINK* that this may not be the case, then we are *ACTUALLY* fools.

So have I adequately established that Corporations influence Government policies far more than the combined and specific desires of the Citizenry?

Context then:

Up until about the 17th Century, "Governments" largely consisted of Feudal Aristocrats, who spent *ZERO* time worrying about the health and welfare of "their" citizens, and almost all of their time feuding with other Aristocrats.

There were no Public Infrastructure Works, no Welfare States, no Government-funded Public institutions...

...There were only Armies and Navies.

That was the only thing that Feudal "Governments" needed to worry about having money to spend on: the means with which to fight wars with other Feudal "Governments".

There weren't really any Standing Taxes to speak of. "Citizens" (peasants/serfs) paid their landlords rent in the form of produce that was tithed off from their subsistence farming activities. In turn, those landlords sold off these tithed acquisitions in exchange for Coin of the Realm.

At which point, the "Central Government" of the day, in the form of a Feudal Monarch, would collect taxes on an "As-Needed" basis, in the form of gold and military-service.

There were other sources of funding a Feudal Government could call upon.

Jewish communities were a very popular and common source of Financial Credit in the Middle Ages, for one particular reason:

Christians and Muslims were prohibited by their Faiths from engaging in Usury. Jews were also prohibited from engaging in Usury... With other Jews. But not with Gentiles.

So the usual practice of Medieval Kings was to borrow huge amounts of money from the local Jewish Community, in order to make up any short-fall in War Funding. This was a particularly favoured source of funding, because if the War went badly, and the King found himself unable to repay his debt to the Jewish Community... He could just expel the Jews from the King's country. French and English monarchs particularly favoured this "Creative" approach to Military Financing...

Another source of funding commonly used by Feudal Monarchs, were the burgeoning Middle Classes. Neither peasants, serfs or Landed Barons, these were the tradespeople and artisans who congregated in the larger cities, and who did very well (thank you very much) by tightly controlling who could and could not engage in which trades.

You will recall I'm sure Slacks, my explanation about the rise of London's Livery Companies, and how in return for funding Medieval Monarchs' military adventures, the City of London was able to extract significant concessions from the English Monarchy, regarding the City's autonomy.

For example, the fact that to this day, the reigning British Monarch must still formally ask for permission from the Lord Mayor of London, before she or he may enter the City. Though of course, this arrangement has only ever been respected by the Kings and Queens of England, on the basis that once permission has been requested, it will never be refused.

And that was all there was to it: Government revenue collection and expenditure in the Feudal Age, in, well, let's say a coconut shell.

Moving on...

By around about the 17th Century, following a number of successive plagues and famines that substantially reduced the number of bodies available to work the land of Feudal Landlords, many Peasant and Middle-Class types started getting ideas about and above their Station in Life.

Due to the ravages of the Black Death and numerous outbreaks of Bubonic Plague, peasants and serfs were able to demand greater concessions from their landlords, because those landlords needed the serfs more than the serfs needed a particular landlord.

The consequence of this change in Social Dynamic brought Europe a couple of centuries of Civil Strife, including Civil Wars, Regicides and outright Revolutions. And by the beginning of the 19th Century, the Political Landscape had changed rather significantly.

Newly-minted "Democratic" Governments in Europe, could no longer threaten to "warm a subject's heels to Putney Bridge", if those subjects refused to pay on demand, what a government demanded to fund its latest Military Adventure.

There was still little or no Social Spending, on Infrastructure, Health Services, Public Amenities &c. Government Spending was primarily divided between Military Expenditure (including Colonisation of less militarily capable societies around the World), and subsidising International Trade.

And it was Merrie Olde England that is commonly accepted as being the first Modern Government to institute a tax on income.

Prime Minister William Pitt the Younger introduced an Income Tax in his 1798 budget, to pay for weapons and equipment for the French Revolutionary War. This tax was then abolished in 1802, before being reintroduced in 1803, to pay for the War(s) against Napoleonic France. And this era of Income Tax lasted until 1816, the year after Napoleon's final defeat at Waterloo.

Sir Robert Peel then reintroduced the Income Tax in 1842, in order to pay for a growing budget deficit, and it has remained in effect ever since.

A point to note: Britain was still on the Gold Standard throughout the 19th Century, all the way up to 1931. So its Budget Deficit could *NOT* be solved by simply printing more money.

And a further point: Government spending in the 19th Century was still almost exclusively targeted at Military Expenditure and Trade Protection. Public Infrastructure works had begun, including gas lighting and sewerage systems in Britain's larger Metropolitan areas; but such works were usually funded by specific Acts of Parliament that directly stipulated sources of funding. But the scope of such "Public" expenditure was still very minimal compared to the Modern Day.

And that's probably enough Context.

So let's talk Government Bonds.

A government or "sovereign" bond is issued by a National Government, generally with a promise to pay periodic interest payments, and to repay the face value on the bond's maturity date.

Since Government bonds are usually denominated in the country's own currency, the issuing government cannot be forced to default, since it can just "print" whatever money is required to make interest payments and repay the face value.

And this makes Sovereign Bond issues the preferred source of Government borrowing in the Day and Age of Fiat Currencies.

Prior to the adoption of Fiat Currencies, Sovereign Bonds were a more risky undertaking for Governments, due to those Governments' inability to conjure gold out of thin air. However, as a means for funding Military Conquest, Bond Issues were a very attractive source of funding, based on the anticipated material rewards that would accrue from a successful conquest.

Bond Financing was seriously promoted and developed by the Rothschild family in Europe, during [url= https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rothschild_family#The_Napoleonic_Wars]the Napoleonic Wars[/url].

[quote] From London in 1813 to 1815, Nathan Mayer Rothschild was instrumental in almost single-handedly financing the British war effort, organising the shipment of bullion to the Duke of Wellington's armies across Europe, as well as arranging the payment of British financial subsidies to their continental allies. In 1815 alone, the Rothschilds provided £9.8 million (in 1815 currency, about £566 million, €717 million or US$869 million today, when using the retail price index, and £6.58 billion, €8,34 billion or US$10.1 billion when using average earnings) in subsidy loans to Britain's continental allies.[/quote]

All of which activity facilitated the Rothschild Family becoming the owners of the largest private fortune in Modern World History.

So there is the foundational and still primary mechanism by which Governments borrow money from the Finance Markets... And now (finally!) we can consider why governments might prefer to borrow money, where and when they could just print the (fiat currency) money it needs to spend. Yay!

Now what was the initial assumption we agreed upon..?

Oh yes:

All (most) politicians are corrupted by their need to fund expensive political campaigns.

So "Conventional" Wisdom is that governments prefer to borrow money to pay for its spending, rather than raise taxes.

That is the answer that anyone without an up-to-date grasp of Modern Monetary Theory will give you.

It is also the answer that any politician will give you... But given our chosen working assumption, you may want to take that answer with a pinch of salt.

There's not a lot of point me repeating/reiterating what the author of the original piece above went to some effort to explain (and that I put less effort into abridging...). You should read/re-read that piece to understand why creating (fiat currency) money to facilitate government spending is a parallel but separate process to taxation.

Let's just keep things simple for our consideration of the Why.

Assuming then (with due reference to the logic and argument in the original piece) that there really is a genuine choice between printing money to fund government spending without jeopardising Economic stability and/or relative Currency value; or borrowing money from Financial Markets to fund government spending without raising taxes...

Why oh why would a modern Government, staffed by modern politicians, prefer to use the mechanism that advantages Finance Capital at the expense of Society; rather than use a mechanism that advantages Society, at the expense of Finance Capital?

Well, that is only a poser if we were working on that other, benign assumption.

But since we're working on the assumption that modern politicians are corrupted by their need to fund expensive political campaigns...

...The answer is self-evident, isn't it?

I think the actual thing you are struggling with here Slacks, is not your inability to comprehend what is a fairly straightforward explanation...

...But your resistance to accepting the idea that our governments could and do behave in such a monstrously corrupt manner.

It's not that you are unable to comprehend or believe that our governments would work to advantage their backers in Finance Capital at the expense of the Citizens their positions exist to represent...

...It is that you don't *WANT* to believe such a horrifying Truth.

Which is, incidentally, the basis of most Confidence Tricks: that people *WON'T* see what they don't want to see.

It really is as simple as that.

Governments in control of their own Fiat Currencies could very easily fund all Public Spending by creating more money; and they can then use taxation to control Inflation.

But this would seriously disadvantage Private Finance to the point where most Finance Capitalists would go broke.

So it doesn't happen.

The really shocking thing though, is not that our governments, politicians and their backers are engaged in such rackets.

It is that the evidence (and explanations) for these rackets is all about us...

...And yet we do nothing about it.

Go figure.