The basis of [i]habeas corpus[/i] ("Show me the body"), is the right of an individual to challenge their detention in an objective court of law.

Magna Carta was the first legal document to enshrine this right, and take away the "Divine" right of Kings to arbitrarily imprison anyone they saw fit, without requiring any legal justification (the King said it was right, therefore it must be right).

The argument here is that those imprisoned in Guantanamo Bay are "Terrorists"; or possibly "Enemy Combatants": but definitely [b]*NOT*[/b] Prisoners of War - who would have to be cared for according to the Geneva Conventions; and who could never be tried for crimes, military or otherwise, but merely held captive until the War's end.

The argument goes that since those held captive in Guantanamo Bay are either "Terrorists" or "Enemy Combatants", they do not deserve the same rights accorded to other citizens.

But here we get to the crux of the matter: [b]*WHO*[/b] decided these people were "Terrorists"?

The Presidential Administration of the United States: the Supreme Executive of the U.S. Government.

The President (and his staff) declares someone a "Terrorist", and locks them up in Guantanamo Bay. Because they have been declared a "Terrorist", they are not accorded the same rights as other citizens; they can not (or could not...) challenge their detention.

If the King... Sorry... If the President wants to call someone a "Terrorist" and have them locked up, he can do so on a whim. Because simply being accused of being a "Terrorist", removes all normal legal protections and rights.

This is precisely what the Earls and Barons of England took King John to task for, in 1215 C.E.

King John would simply declare someone a traitor, and have them locked up or executed, without needing to prove to anyone else that the person in question was indeed a traitor.

This is the same situation that the U.S. Supreme Court has just over-turned in America.

The President can no longer simply call someone a "Terrorist" or "Enemy Combatant", and then lock them up in Guantanamo Bay and throw away the key.

Now, he's actually got to prove, in a Court of Law, that the person in question is actually a terrorist.

Frankly, it baffles me that so many Americans, so in thrall to the concept of Freedom and Liberty, can fail to grasp the fundamental egregiousness of the situation of those imprisoned by the Bush Administration in Guantanamo Bay.

It may very well be that "Terrorists" do not deserve the same rights as ordinary citizens...

But you've got to prove that someone is a terrorist [b]*BEFORE*[/b] you can deny them their rights, on that basis.

Peace