[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]Frankly, it baffles me that so many people confuse foreign Jihadis captured on the battlefields of Afghanistan and Iraq, or captured sneaking into our country as common criminals with US citizenship.

All the GITMO detainees have access to layers and military tribunals.  Thanks to this ruling, the Jihadis now have more "rights" then our own soldiers who go through the Court Martial system.

During WWII, FDR executed German spies who snook into our country within 3 months of their capture.  The Jihadis have it easy.[/color][/quote]

The Bush Administration's problem is that the United States is signatory to several international treaties that cover the treatment of prisoners of war, enemy combatants, and non-U.S. citizens in general.

These treaties, including the U.N. Charter, Geneva Conventions and Nuremburg Standards, hold the same status as domestic law in the United States. The Bush Administration is not too worried about being arrested outside of the U.S., and ending up in the Hague; but members of the Administration [b]*WILL*[/b] be worried about some smart ass, politically-motivated lawyer in the U.S., demonstrating the illegality of Bush Administration's actions.

And it is for this reason that the subject of Guantanamo prisoners has reached the U.S. Supreme Court.

Your problem Foota, and the problem that all the other Brownshirts have, is that you are caught in a paradox of your own propaganda.

[b]*IF*[/b] the inmates of Guantanamo Bay were captured on the battlefields of Afghanistan and Iraq, then that makes them enemy soldiers, fighting against the U.S. And if this is the case, then those soldiers should be treated as prisoners of war, in accordance with international and U.S. domestic law.

The problem with that designation though, is that the U.S. Congress has never declared war on Afghanistan or Iraq, so there can, in fact, be no prisoners of war.

Rather, the U.S. Congress did, in 2001, authorise the use of military force in Afghanistan, to strike back at those responsible for the 9/11 attacks. And those individuals we know as "terrorists".

The distinction between a terrorist targeting and destroying a civilian building (like the World Trade Centre), and a military force targeting and destroying water treatment centres and electricity plants (Iraq, Afghanistan), is a bit nebulous. But it seems to come down to the fact that the non-terrorist pilots of jet-bombers and drivers of tanks, all wear a uniform, and are easily recognised as part of a conventional military force.

"Terrorists", on the other hand, are not recognisably part of a regular military force. In fact, they are indistinguishable from any other civilian criminals, engaged in acts of political violence.

And here's the dilemma for the Bush Brownshirts:

If a person is guilty of terrorism, then they are a civilian, guilty of a criminal offence, and must be accorded due process within the criminal justice system.

If a person is an enemy soldier, carrying out attacks against his enemy, as ordered by his superiors, then he is no more guilty of a crime, than a U.S. soldier is when he bombs or shoots [b]*HIS*[/b] enemy.

All is far in Love and War.

Prisoners of War captured in World War Two were not subject to tribunals, military or otherwise. They were merely held captive until the cessation of hostilities, or on the odd occasion, a prisoner exchange between two sides.

Spies were and are a further class of individual, and are accorded far fewer protections by the Geneva Conventions and other international standards; usually meaning that spies could be executed, once their status as a spy is proved beyond a reasonable doubt.

The whole issue that the U.S. Supreme Court has just considered, is whether or not it is legal for members of the Bush Administration to arbitrarily declare someone to be a "Terrorist", without having to prove or demonstrate to anyone else that that individual is, in fact, a terrorist.

It is one of the supreme hallmarks of a despot, that he can exercise control of life and death over other human beings, without being held to account in anyway.

And it is this practice that the U.S. Supreme Court has acted to halt.

Peace