[quote=DetrimusoT ][color=green]I just don't see how people can support the US Government getting "alleged Terrorists" and turning them into wimpering vegetables. Killing them, and maiming them for results. And then trying them on BS made up charges, even if they were nowhere near anything. The fact is, you cannot get reliable information from torture. You can get [b]any[/b] information, because the guy just wants the torture to stop.

It's a known fact that the FBI more reliable information during that little time they had with some of the Gitmo inmates, than the soldiers and their "extreme measures" had in the same amount of time.

I wonder if torture is a business? I wonder what kind of people get assigned to GITMO to do the most horrible things imaginable in western society? Do they get an extra pay packet everytime they extract a "viable piece of intelligence" from one of those inmates? It's creepy. I wonder if the soldiers doing these things will feel similar effects to certain nazi soldiers who did what they thought was right? Of course back then, they were all sheep and they followed the Fuhrer into a new era.

Does that mean hating anything Arab, and following Bush is any different?[/color][/quote]

Thanks for the props Detrimus, and welcome to =PBF=.It is of course very obvious that information (hardly intelligence...) gathered by torture is wholly unreliable. Furthermore, it is the nature of the Bush Administration's enemies in Afghanistan and the Middle East that even information and intelligence gathered by whatever means from captives, is wholly unreliable.

The Bush Administration is using a 3rd Generation Military Machine to try and fight 4th (and possibly 5th) Generation Warfare.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/4th_Generation_Warfare

Non-nation state combatants like Al Qaeda and the Taliban do not organise themselves along the same lines or chains of command as nationalist, 3rd Generation forces like the U.S. military.

To use a technical analogy, Al Qaeda (& Co.) organise themselves along peer-to-peer lines, whilst the U.S. is still using - [b]*MUST*[/b] use - a client-server architecture.

To the 4th Generation Warrior, there is little difference between strategy and tactics.

Fighting against a technologically, economically and numerically superior force means using guerrilla tactics: ambushes; lightning strikes; road-side bombs etc. The intention is to impose the "Death of a Thousand Cuts" on an enemy that the guerrillas lack the firepower and capability to defeat in a straight fight.

And there really is no strategy required or involved. Find any ideologically motivated individual with a grievance against the United States; equip them with small arms and explosives; and point them in the direction of the uniformed and organised military personnel that are occupying the country.

When it comes to operations against the enemy on the enemy's home turf, the cellular structure used by "terrorist" organisations is well known; and is well understood to withstand the detection and capture of individual units, without threatening or limiting the capabilities of the whole.

As much as U.S. propaganda tries to present "Al Qaeda" and even the Taliban as organised and orchestrated fighting forces, that simply need to be defeated in total in order to win "The War on Terror"; the fact is that there really is no defining membership requirement for any of these groups. Promoting them as masterminded organisations, under the control and direction of master strategists, is just fodder for the brainwashed.

Pick up an AK47 or an RPG in the Hindu Kush, hook up with some like-minded fellows, and march until you meet a U.S. or NATO patrol: then engage.

By such a route did David Hicks become a "member" of Al Qaeda.

And again, the same applies with those wishing to enact any terrorist atrocities in the U.S. or Europe or the Rest of the World.

It's not about funding or equipment, or even any great requirement for planning. Indeed, the more organisation and orchestration there is, the greater the risk of detection.

What terrified Americans the most about 9/11, was the simple nature of the way the conspirators exploited a weakness they had identified. 9/11 was carried out with box-cutters, a few hours on flight simulators, and of course, fanatical determination.

All this is by way of saying that whether you consider the use of torture or not, what possible information could possibly be gleaned from those captured and detained by the U.S., in its "War on Terror"? If someone holding important and relevant information was captured, then any plans connected to that individual or information would be instantly changed; and the individual and information would immediately become meaningless.

So what's the point of the torture? What's the point of Guantanamo Bay? What's the point of those Abu Ghraib photos?

Well that's really quite simple, and has everything to do with the fanatical determination of America's enemies, that the U.S. simply can't do anything about.

The purpose of advertising the inhumane and blasphemous treatment meted out to those captured by the United States, is an attempt to dissuade Muslims (and others) from enjoining the fight against the U.S. in Afghanistan and Iraq.

Simply killing every member of Al Qaeda and the Taliban in sight is a strategy that can never work for the United States. Every jihadist martyred by the United States just encourages more to join the fray; and this aside from all those otherwise more moderate individuals, who have suffered grievous loss as a result of the "Collateral Damage" created by the United States in its blundering efforts to dominate and destroy an idea, who are just out for the (American) blood of those who killed their family.

So in an attempt to dissuade others from joining the fight, the United States has tried to frighten potential recruits to Al Qaeda, and the Iraqi and Afghan resistance groups, by showing them just what Uncle Sam has in store for these devout Muslims, if they are captured: a fate [b]*WORSE*[/b] than death!!!

The problem with this strategy however, in addition to earning the United States the universal derision and condemnation of the Civilised World, is that it is the kind of disincentive that would only work on - would only [b]*OCCUR TO*[/b] - someone living the kind of pampered and comfortable life that they wouldn't want to let go of.

Life for the average Arab in the Middle East, and for most in Afghanistan and Pakistan, is pretty brutal on any given day anyway. The kind of brutality that the United States can advertise, is just not going to frighten or even disturb America's enemies. Rather, it is simply going to incite those enemies to greater fury, whilst simultaneously causing the Rest of the World to sympathise with them.

I think that the Bush Administration understands this now, which is why we don't hear about new Guantanamo inmates or extraordinary renditions anymore. The problem it has is that those it has mistreated in the past have something of a tale to tell.

By and large though, the majority of these individuals are more anonymous than the Western converts to Islam like David Hicks; so I suspect they will eventually be "disappeared" in the full, Latin American sense of the word.

All the while, the Bush Administration will continue to try and fight a wholly unwinnable War, and idiots like Foota will continue to try and justify it.

Because some people's lack of intelligence is just torture to the Rest of Humanity.

Peace