In Reply To #57

In Reply To #54

Holyman - you are still woefully misinformed about this issue.

You mean: I have formed different conclusions about the information I have, than you have. :)

The famous "16 words" in President Bush's Jan. 28, 2003 State of the Union address turn out to have a basis in fact after all, according to two recently released investigations in the US and Britain.

.

http://www.factcheck.org/article222.html

.

I know you probabably don't think factcheck.org is as credible as "Counterpunch" - but give it a read.

Oh, I did. :)

It's all a bit undermined by this acknowledgement, wouldn't you say?

None of the new information suggests Iraq ever nailed down a deal to buy uranium, and the Senate report makes clear that  US intelligence analysts have come to doubt whether  Iraq was even trying to buy the stuff. In fact, both the White House and the CIA long ago conceded that the 16 words shouldn't have been part of Bush's speech.

I agree completely.

President Bush shouldn't have said "The British Government has learned that Saddam Hussein recently sought significant quantities of uranium from Africa.", in his State of the Union address before the Invasion.

I agree with the White House's and the CIA's concession.

Then we have this which I posted earlier:

Nevertheless, it now appears that the person most responsible for the end of Ms. Plame's CIA career is Mr. Wilson. Mr. Wilson chose to go public with an explosive charge, claiming -- falsely, as it turned out -- that he had debunked reports of Iraqi uranium-shopping in Niger and that his report had circulated to senior administration officials. He ought to have expected that both those officials and journalists such as Mr. Novak would ask why a retired ambassador would have been sent on such a mission and that the answer would point to his wife. He diverted responsibility from himself and his false charges by claiming that President Bush's closest aides had engaged in an illegal conspiracy. It's unfortunate that so many people took him seriously.

Ugh.

No, Joseph Wilson should NOT ought to have expected that "officials" would give answers that would point to his wife's status as a covert CIA operative; because as far as he was aware - and the rest of the thinking World - his wife's status was protected from disclosure by United States Law.

Journalists would not and could not have known Valerie Plame was a CIA agent. They were informed of this - illegally - by officials who were in a position to know.

Look Foota, as far as I'm concerned, this particular issue is merely the tip of the criminal iceberg that surrounds the whole despicable and monstrous enterprise that is the Rape of Iraq. However, that doesn't mean I'm not permitted to enjoy or comment on the whole messy house of cards falling over. :)

As far as I'm concerned, the entire Niger uranium mining operation is under control of the French. To even begin to suggest that Saddam Hussein sought uranium from Niger, is to suggest that he sought it from the French.

Can you dispute the fact that the French control uranium mining in Niger?

Of course you can't.

Secondly, how, on Earth, was Saddam Hussein going to get the hundreds of tons of uranium ore he (didn't) seek from Niger, into Iraq?

Can you answer that?

Of course you can't.

And thirdly, no trace of weapons of mass destruction, or an active nuclear weapons programme has been found in Iraq. So where would the uranium that Saddam Hussein didn't seek from Niger, that the French wouldn't have supplied him, and which he couldn't have transported, been destined for?

Can you answer that?

Of course you can't.

Surely by now Foota, even YOU must acknowledge that this whole failed enterprise in Iraq was sold to the American people on a pack of lies and sophisticated propaganda, of which the Wilson / Plame case merely highlights a fraction.

Or is it that you CAN'T allow yourself to admit that?

Peace