In Reply To #62

In Reply To #58

You mean: I have formed different conclusions about the information I have, than you have. :)

Nope.  I mean you believe in your own versions of "facts" as you accuse the Administration of warmongering conspiracies that are as paper thin and sensational as Crazy Ted's typical rantings.  All the while you accuse the rest of us as being victims of "sophisticated propaganda".

The Bush Administration lied to the American People to take the United States to "War" with Iraq.

There.

That's my "paper thin", "sensational" and presumably "crazy" warmongering conspiracy theory.

Of course, it isn't actually "my" theory", it is the conclusion shared and understood by all but the Bush Administration's dwindling band of supporters, which currently, still includes you.

Now you're an intelligent guy Foota, you're a reasonable guy, despite everything, you're a likeable guy. The only possible reason why you could continue to defend the Bush Administration, is that you have been the victim of a sophisticated propaganda campaign.

You dismiss, disparage or outright ignore not only the basic facts that contradict your support for the Bush Administration, but also plain common sense.

That politicians lie to convince the public to support politicians' own self-serving agendas is not Conspiracy Theory, it's a basic fact of popular fucking Government.

And the propaganda technique, by the way, is to get people like you to invest so much of your own personal and social credibility in the lies, that you have to keep maintaining that they are truth because you fear the social consequences of putting your hands up and acknowledging that you've been duped.

Actually Foota, I'm here to tell you that the opposite is the case. When the lies and the propaganda have been exposed - and in this case, it wasn't all that sophisticated in the first place - continuing to insist that you backed the right horse, that the clear and obvious (to everyone else) lies and propaganda are still the "Truth", is actually what causes you to lose respect in others' eyes. Admitting that we are mistaken, that we make mistakes, and especially that we can have our emotions and our patriotism hi-jacked to support an ideological manifesto actually makes us more human, more respected, not less.

Ones of these days, you will get around to explaining why the Bush Administration did not have the presence of mind to plant WMD's in Iraq if they knew that Saddam had no WMD's all along?

Seriously, why bother with the whole bloody enterprise by picking the one rational that you knew was wrong?

Look at the mental and rational hoops your are forced to somersault through, as you continue to defend the indefensible Foota.

You are saying that the Bush Administration can't have been lying, because they're not very good liars. You are saying that they can't have been conspiring anything, because they're not very good conspirators.

The reason the WMD reason was used in the run-up to and initial stages of the Invasion, is because it was the only reason that everyone whose support was needed for the "War" would agree upon. That includes the U.S. military, members of the Senate and Congress, foreign governments in the "Coalition of the Willing (ffs!)" - particularly the UK, and of course, the American People.

Had the reason been to "Rid the World of a tyrant" or "Spread Freedom and Democracy", or especially "To fulfil the manifesto commitments of the Project for a New American Century and secure and control access to Middle Eastern energy resources", the "War" would never have got off the starting blocks.

The Neo-Conservative ideologues in the Bush Administration are not representative of even a tiny fraction of the American People Foota. They are simply a tiny handful of individuals who have risen to the most elite positions in American Society. They would have had no more facility or support for planting WMD's in Invasion-torn Iraq, than they would have had to bring down the World Trade Centre.

The Bush Administration's support comes from, or rather, CAME from, other politicians and ideologues who saw their own self-interests being served in return for support, and from the American People whose post-9/11 emotions were manipulated to support an illegal War, restrictions on their civil liberties, the shredding of their Constitution, and Crimes Against Humanity.

That's it Foota. There are no legions of Tom-Clancy-style Black-Ops ready to smuggle nuclear warheads into a recently invaded Iraq; there is no Praetorian Guard to fight the U.S. Military for Executive Supremacy; and there's no secret cabal of oil-men secretly funnelling billions of dollars of cash to pay for all this unchecked power.

There is only a bunch of greedy old men, greedy old criminals, who know how to use the mass media in a sophisticated way - the same way that TV advertisers and marketers do - to sell a monstrous and un-American enterprise to the anxious, shocked and gullible post-9/11 American public.

And now, the whole shoddy enterprise is now being exposed, in a way that soon, even you won't be able to deny.

Just let it go and come back and join the rest of us. I can assure you that we won't hold it against you in the same way you would hold it against us if the Wheel of Fortune hand stopped rolling the other way up.

Peace