In Reply To #56

I think it's a power thing. A maladjusted, insecure person is going to feel powerless in many respects. They can't get the girl they want, the job they want, the respect they want. A gun will give you power over other people. Stick a gun in their face and they'll fear you. They'll do what you say. That's gotta be empowering right?

That's it.

"KNEEL BEFORE MY MIGHTY WEAPON OF FEAR; AND PAY HOMAGE TO HE WHO DOMINATES YOU!"

Or something like that: depends on the nature of the enculturation. It might have more to do with "unlucky punks", or "popping caps" in peoples' "asses", depends on your background and cultural context.

It has ever been thus, just a bit more camp when men were demanding others kneel before their "Mighty SW-ord!"

The difference I suppose - and this picks up Frrank's point about martial arts - is that the firearm requires no self-discipline to be able to use it lethally.

It is Power, in easily-available commodity form.

I know that when I trained in martial arts, and realised just how lethal the human body can be, when guided by a mind that knows what it is doing, it used to send a real thrill through me. First year or so of training - before the novelty wore off and I got down to serious training and competition - there wasn't a person I knew who didn't know I was doing martial arts training. And only a few who didn't witness me demonstrate some "devastating move", (that I'd first been shown the previous night, but demonstrated like a seasoned pro, nevertheless...) accompanied by a description of just how damn lethal I was.

But the thing about martial arts training - in fact: THE thing - is that any kind of cocky, over-confident bullshit, soon gets variously kicked, punched, kneed, elbowed and head-butted out of you, as you experience others who know *EXACTLY* how to use a human body lethally AND devastatingly.

THE thing about martial arts is not that you learn how to hurt others; but that you learn what hurt is your self. And that more or less cures your curiosity. After that, you progress in the certain knowledge that you are more lethal... Than Most! And content in that knowledge, you really get down to developing your skills in controlled competitions.

It is the same with swordsmanship and knife-fighting.

It is not the same with firearms.

Whilst some can and do take firearms use and tactics to High Art, the amount of training to become incompetently lethal with a firearm, is precisely nil.

No sad, lonely misfit would put themselves through the kind of training required to become really competent with a firearm, because it requires too much social contact. Unfortunate really, since that regular social contact would almost certainly resolve his dysfunction.

In Reply To #63

I think the proliferation of guns leads to a lack of respect for them. More times than I can recall, I've seen people seriously injure each other while playing with guns like toys, and I've been shot point-blank because somebody is a careless motherfucker. Then you have the Iraqis the other day killing seven people by celebrating a fucken sports victory with random automatic weapons fire.

I worked in Atlanta around the time of the Olympics in 1996, and the company I worked for made a serious offer to sponsor me for a Green Card. I can honestly say I had no political beefs with the U.S. at that time - I went out with a cool American chick who lived in one of the Virginias, just outside of Washington D.C. from '98 - '99 - as my political sensibilities didn't really start evolving until 2001.

But having spent time living and working in Atlanta, the one thing that really spooked me was American's attitude to guns. I'd spent enough time around the military by then to understand the importance of demonstrating the proper respect for firearms. I lost a very close school friend to firearm tomfoolery, when returning from a Belfast patrol, he and his Parachute Regiment colleague fucked around to the point where my friend had his head blown off.

But sitting in someone's living room, watching someone else wave an Uzi around like it was a water pistol, really concerned me. There was only one person I met there who understood the reasons for showing guns respect. He actually lived in Alabama, and he and I spent a hazy night on his porch lamenting the lack of awareness demonstrated by so many people in possession of so many weapons.

I got to state as clearly and unambiguously as possible here:

If I HAD got that Green Card, and I was now living in some of the parts of the United States I've visited, I definitely WOULD possess a gun; and so would Holywoman - and she'd know how to use it.

But BECAUSE of that fact, Holywoman and I are living in London, England.

Where violent crime exists, sure, if you know where to look for it; but other than that, not so much that I have to own a easily-lethal weapon, nor - God Help Us - have to teach Holywoman how to use one.

I think what very-Pro-Gun advocates in the U.S. seem to forget - or are incapable of acknowledging - is that a Society that HAS to ensure a majority of its citizens are routinely and readily armed, is, not all that great a Society...

See, just as you look upon those crazy Iraqis, stupidly firing their weapons in the air not thinking about where the bullets are going to come down; many Europeans (if not, all), look at those crazy Americans, and think more or less the same thing:

How stupid ARE these People?

See, I think the idea is that "We" Europeans are pussies, that we're not "Men" enough to use a weapon. But that is based on the conceit that we Europeans didn't all choose - and continue to choose - that state of affairs ourselves.

We Europeans read stories of violent tragedy amongst our children in cities, with a terrible sadness in our hearts; and I think, a recognition, that if the children must suffer, then we must suffer too. How to measure the death of one child, against the deaths of a thousand useless adults, who couldn't even create a safe Society for them to grow up in?

If the price of a few less children dying, is a few more "defenceless" adults dying, I think that is a sacrifice that if made, says a lot about a Society; and if not made, says even more.

"We" Europeans would enjoy it if our children got to grow up to be old people, without ever having to even see a firearm, let alone experience the potential horrors its Power can unleash. Clearly not practically possible right now, but it is an ambition we can achieve if we all put our minds to it.

Meanwhile, over in the United States of America: the bullets keep on flying, and the kids keep on dying.

(I forget who said that, but I think it was said some Time ago...)

However, I think I finally have an answer that should be palatable to all; and solves several issues.

A big issue we've defined here is people not receiving sufficient training and discipline to be able to safely possess a firearm in public Society.

Greater and more extended firearms training, along with a personal experience of the more negative aspects of firearms use, would lead to a significant reduction in accidents with firearms, simply by making their users more proficient in, and aware of their correct usage.

So the answer begins to present itself.

Introduce a two-year military service requirement for all Americans who wish to possess a firearm for reasons of "Self-Defence".

"A well-armed citizenry is a sturdy defence against tyranny", and all that.

Clearly the mental standards of entry for what would essentially be a conscripted "National Service" obligation for many Americans, should be at least as high as it is for the volunteer military; since it would be the selection process for Americans who will be effectively training to kill other Americans (mostly). And any Society should set the psychological standard high for those it is entrusting with the facility for lethal defence of Self and Community.

The physical entry requirements would probably have to be lowered though...

And it's probably too late for those Americans already over forty, or those with a professional dispensation.

But that's no reason not to start with the Next Generation.

After two years of military training, learning goodness knows what else in the meantime, they leave with an ingrained proficiency and respect for firearms.

And that has GOT to be good for American Society: to have more young people like THAT in its communities.

And as for the Rest of the World, well, It breathes a sigh of relief as it sees America's Military balloon to encompass a massive, essentially conscripted force. A conscript force of reluctant citizens, is inclined to support far less egregious missions, than a "Gung-Ho", all-volunteer force, who can be threatened with career oblivion and disgrace, if they don't follow orders.

If nothing else, a massive expansion of the National Guard would overwhelm the Department of Defense in bureaucracy, limiting its ability to conduct offensive overseas operations.

Which has got to be a Plus, for Everyone, especially the Americans...

So that's my solution to America's Gun Problem:

Two years military service to qualify for a legal permit to posses and carry a weapon in private and in public; for all Americans currently under 30 or born hereafter.

Can't say fairer than that, can you?

Peace