In Reply To #397

I don't know, he kinda lost me when he claimed the "fear" has a narcotic effect and it makes people come back for more but then says target and hunters are an exception.

Yeah, sorry, I was trying to weave as brief and concise a path through the bloody streets of this issue as I could.

I was trying to make the point that prohibition of firearms would be no more effective than the prohibition of alcohol or recreational drugs.

Fear is a most powerful emotion. It is universally experienced by all animals, including humans. Fear is a natural and vital component of animal nature, necessary for self-preservation and all the other natural imperatives that extend from existence.

It isn't that people "come back for more" Fear, it is that when people can't escape from Fear, they can learn to relish it, they can learn to live with it.

If you believe that you are in mortal danger if you are unarmed, you will experience Fear if you are unarmed. Arming yourself doesn't remove the Fear, it is just a response to that Fear; it is an expression of Fear (albeit a sensible response, if you live in America). It is at this point that the particular response to Fear of arming one's self, CAN become a vicarious activity. The vicarious thrill experienced when handling weapons, the mollification of one's Fear, is a powerful feeling. It is this feeling that can become an addiction, an addiction most visible in SOME Americans' attitude towards firearms.

One of the biggest challenges when discussing broad social issues is to try and disconnect the general from the specific.

As Traci pointed out, America's gun-culture is not all-pervasive, it does not exist at the same degree of intensity in every region of the United States. Equally, there is a broad spectrum of differing attitudes to gun ownership in American Society. Some gun-owners see their firearm as an unfortunate, but absolutely necessary tool for coping with modern life. Other gun-owners however, get caught up in a blaze of celebration about their possession and use of weapons.

Littering any discussion about social issues with caveats and codicils to specify just exactly WHO it is we are talking about, makes for a very foggy dialogue. There are exceptions to every rule, and a rule for every exception; detailing those exceptions at every turn quickly busts the word count...

I think that there is a clear distinction between hunters and target-shooting gun enthusiasts, and those for whom firearms are treated with an almost cult-like attitude. And obviously, there is a clear distinction between those citizens who routinely walk lethally-armed amongst their peers, and those who do not.

But to point that out at every turn, would really disrupt the flow of my prose. :)

In Reply To #397

Look, you can try to make britins sound more noble cause they'd rather take a bullet then defend themselves or take the chance the gun get stolen and on the "streets" but I'm personally not buying it.

Ah, well, hence my liberal use of the term "Hypothesis".

I don't think that in a REAL situation, any Briton would be any more self-sacrificing than any American. In a real situation, the emotion of Fear will pretty much rule out the exercise of any mental faculty.

I was pointing out that often in these discussions, a hypothesis is suggested that directs to an inevitable response. But since it is only a hypothesis, we can think about the broader implications of our hypothetical actions.

I just don't think it's fair to say that majority of americans own guns out of sheeple type fear but yet he's out shooting them and enjoying them. Why can't those people feel just like how he does at the range and at the same time would "RISK" owning one for protection also?

bla bla bla

Ah, well, I was trying to draw a distinction around the various motivations for owning a firearm.

I know some Napoleonic re-enactors, who enjoy using "Brown Bess" muskets and Baker Rifles. They also use canons without shot and wave swords and bayonets at each other. As I mentioned, I've enjoyed visits to firing ranges, and understand the skill and sense of achievement evident in target shooting. And, of course, animal hunters have a very specific objective in mind when they arm themselves.

Another reason why some people in America arm themselves, is because they are afraid of being shot or otherwise murderously assaulted, in their daily lives.

The GENERAL problem however, with the GENERAL situation in the United States of America, is that too many people in America, are killed by other people in America, using firearms. This GENERALLY causes many people living in America to procure their own firearms, in order to alleviate their Fear of being killed.

If you own a firearm for protection, it is because you are afraid, and feel the need to protect yourself.

That's more just a summary observation on my part, than any insightful assessment.

And it was just an observation that I was using to support my main point, which is that it is Americans' levels of Fear that is the actual problem here; not the means with which those fears are exaggerated and/or protected against.

Peace