In Reply To #410

In Reply To #319

Holyman, good to see you back in typical form.  I suspect you have written some of that post before.  Possibly an earlier submittal for Counterpunch or Prison Planet?  It just seems too prepared and organized from your normal stream of consciousness rants.

Too gracious Foota...

Nope, afraid that post was written in about an hour and a half, and about 3 joints last night, because I figured I'd been neglecting my duties.

Imagine that eh Foota? That whole piece just banged out whilst stoned?

Now why would you think it might be anything different?

I am too busy this week (and too uninterested in gun laws) to try and "evilfish" your post.  But like others have said (Vax) - I think you are way off on the "Gun/Fear Culture" in the United States.  I have lived in big cities most of my life and can probably count on one hand the number of people I know who own guns.  And most of those people own rifles for hunting.  I grew up hunting, but have never had the desire to own my own gun, let alone a pistol.  And you would probably argue that I am one of the greatest fear mongers on this forum.

Sorry mate, but I based that entire piece on a single read of this entire thread.

The evidence that some Americans clearly Fear for their lives on a daily basis, and carry weapons to alleviate that Fear, is quite evident in this thread.

As for any disparity between my general observations, and your specific experience, well, read my post above regarding that differences between generalising and specification.

I think the main cultural difference between America and Europe (that you are confusing with fear) is that America (until recently) was largely a rural society where we had to learn to tame the land and take care of ourselves - as opposed to waiting passively for the State to protect or coddle us.

No, I think the main cultural difference between American and Europe, in the context of personal firearms, is that many, many more people in America are afraid of being shot by other people in America, than people in Europe are afraid of their own neighbours.

Finally, I can't help but point out the irony of the gun in your signature as you lecture Americans about our unhealthy "Gun Culture".  What are you afraid of Holyman?  : )

Don't worry Foota, that's not an actual gun, it's just a digital representation of one, it can't hurt anyone. It's there more to give context to the archetype of a gun-toting preacher-man, than to actually threaten anyone.

As for what I'm afraid of... Well, there are several things...

But death isn't one of them. :)

Peace