In Reply To #413

In Reply To #411

The evidence that some Americans clearly Fear for their lives on a daily basis, and carry weapons to alleviate that Fear, is quite evident in this thread.

Self-preservation isn't a quality unique to Americans. There's no accounting for assholes and crazies, no matter where on earth you are. It's better to have and not need than vice versa, and all that.

Aww, hey, look, just to clarify:

I wasn't making any value judgements in that statement; I wasn't making any judgement at all in fact, just an observation.

Clearly, more Americans Fear that they may be a victim of a murderous assault, in their daily lives, than is the norm in European Society. Clearly there is a greater probability of an American being the victim of a murderous assault, on any given day, than a European has of suffering same.

And in such circumstances, I agree without equivocation, that carrying a personal weapon to defend and protect one's self - and to protect one's dependents - is clearly the sensible and practical thing to do.

It is what I would do if I lived somewhere with a high probability of my suffering a murderous assault.

I'm not sure I can state that idea any more clearly.

In Reply To #414

In Reply To #411

I might be a bit paranoid but I think I earned the right to be since being robbed at gunpoint twice, and having my home invaded by someone willing to shoot me because I caught them at it.

No, I don't think you're paranoid at all.

The generally accepted definition of paranoia, is the experience of unfounded Fear; to Fear where there is no reason to Fear. You have been robbed at gunpoint twice. Therefore your Fears are perfectly well-based, perfectly valid, and not paranoid at all.

It would not even be paranoid for someone you know, who knows of your experience, and who could just as easily find themselves in the same situation, to arm themselves. Not paranoia: understandable and totally sensible Fear.

I suppose if we banned guns then you and others would allow law abiding citizens to carry swords to protect themselves instead? How about a mace or an axe? No, I suppose you're one of those who expect the victim to cooperate with the criminal, lie there and take it, and hope for the best :P. Fuck that. I'd rather protect myself and others with equivalent force or greater.

No, I've really been trying to make clear that I think a change in legislation that prohibited law-abiding American citizens from carrying personal weapons for protection, if they feel the need to, would have disastrous consequences for the fabric of American Society.

There are simply too many weapons in America, and too pervasive a violent gun culture, for a tightening of legislation to have any positive effect at all.

If I lived where you live, and I had been robbed twice, and the victim of an armed burglary, I would carry the same weapons as you, for the same reasons as you do.

This is not a political issue, it is a social one. This is not a moral issue, it is a practical one.

Where peoples' lives are involved, we have to consider things as absolutely practically as we can.

And change in legislation would produce nothing more practical than a sense of moral decency that "Steps have been taken!" As far as I can see, it wouldn't have no effect at all: it would have a disastrously negative effect.

Now I wonder if that's cleared that up..?

Peace