In Reply To #396

In Reply To #319

Holyman,

Yours is the first post I have read that is the most on point and concise post in this entire thread.  Further after the news has shed some more light on how fucked up this kid is there are parts of your post that are absolutely spot on.

Well thank you. :)

While I may disagree with what you are trying to do with respects to a "gun culture" and whether it's a vicious circle between guns creating fear or fear creating gun owners. It's the concept of something lurking beneath the surface for which there is actually rational purpose for being in fear.

One of the central themes I tried to highlight is the dynamic between what we consider is good for us personally, and what is good for Society.

Many Americans undoubtedly live in violent neighbourhoods. That is an unfortunate situation, but nevertheless a real one. The Fear of being the victim of a violent attack, or even the Fear of being witness to a violent attack and not being able to do anything about, is just as real.

Very broadly (and apologies Traci, but for the sake of brevity (!), I kept the caveats about variations amongst Americans' attitudes to firearms to a minimum), the firearms debate in the US can be split into two camps.

One camp views the situation through the lens of an Ideal Society, and believes that legislation can or ever will be the solution to America's endemic and tragic relationship with weapons. The other camp views the situation from a personal perspective, and sees the possession and retention of firearms as the only practical response to the epidemic violence in American Society.

The idea that taking weapons away from law-abiding (or those who wish to remain law-abiding) citizens would begin or serve the purpose of de-escalating the prevalence of weapons in American Society, is wholly impractical and wholly deluded. Telling people who live in violent neighbourhoods that they must surrender what they consider to be tools vital to self-defence, is never going to work.

The actual problem is NOT the prevalence of firearms in American Society, that is just a symptom. The problem is how violent American Society is; how necessary it is for American citizens to carry personal weapons in certain (and many) areas of America; how personally insecure many Americans feel, going about their daily lives. Arming, or allowing those citizens to be armed, is kind of essential. If I lived in certain places in America right now, I would carry a gun.

If that's not good reason to show some level of fear I don't know what is.  It's how people react to that possiblity that your post seems to attempt to address on some levels with certain people deciding to proactively choose to protect themselves while others rely on another defense mechanism by trying to solve it with legislation.

Like I say, there are definitely and broadly two camps.

However, on the one hand, both camps have got it dead wrong, and on the other hand, they both have it dead right.

On the dead wrong hand, it is that clearly legislation would be at best ineffective, and at worst, lethally counter-productive. And increasing the amount of weapons, and increasing access to those weapons, clearly creates more violence. The prospect of a violent death simply does not dissuade these suicidal glory-seekers; if anything, it only serves to encourage their deadly nihilistic fantasies.

And on the dead right hand, it is clear that the only responsible and practical thing to do if you live in a neighbourhood where you might be shot, is to carry a weapon of your own. And those who have an ideal view of an American Society where people are not shooting each other with an appalling regularity, are right to hold that view. Who would NOT want to live in a Society where you don't have to fear being shot at every day?

But legislation won't cure the problem, or create the Ideal Society; and putting more guns into Society will simply not curb the deaths or tragedies.

As for doing away with firearms in this country, or reaching a point where we want to do away with them, fat chance.  I'm hold fast to the belief that mankind is violent by his very nature and that men of weaker moral fiber will always prey on his fellow man.

Yet there are countries and societies where man's violent nature IS kept in check.

The problem with firearms is that they allow mankind's violent nature to be expressed on an industrial scale.

It is not unknown for men to go on the rampage in the UK and Europe, armed with knives or a samurai sword. But compared to firearms, there is a limit to how much damage can be inflicted with a blade weapon.

Those men who find it impossible to overcome their primal, animal nature - and who eventually "Fall Down" in an explosion of indiscriminate violence - will look to cause as much carnage as they can. Unfortunately, in a Society where the means to cause significant and tragic carnage are so easily available, the scale and intensity of these breakdowns are much greater.

Fear while being an emotion can be perfectly rational just as it can be irrational.

Well, at the risk of being semantic: Fear is an emotion, not a reason, therefore Fear can not intrinsically be rational. However, having good reasons for our Fears, is a different thing.

You may be afraid of dying. Actually, there is nothing rational about the Fear of dying. We will all die, eventually, so being frightened of death is a bit of a waste of energy. But perhaps you are afraid that instead of gently slipping away to the Long Sleep, lying in bed, surrounded by your grandchildren and great-grandchildren, you will actually die violently and alone. Again, that's a real Fear, there are good reasons for that Fear, but the Fear itself, is not rational or reason for anything.

Like I said, I'm risking being semantic, and I don't know that I'm doing a great job of avoiding the risks. But I hope you get my meaning. Reason is something that exists within our abstract and conceptual mental consciousness; Emotion is something that we FEEL in our very core.

You quoted Roosevelt as saying "we have nothing to fear but fear itself."

I retort with "fear can be a great motivator."  I also do not believe that peace occurs naturally and quite literally believe in Peace Through Superior Firepower.

My own stake in this entire discussion is that these events are not occuring due to access to firearms.  Whatever is causing it lay so deep beneath the surface that we may never effectively identify or cure the cancer eating away at our society.

I think you are more capable than that.

I think if you believe that you can effectively identify the underlying cause, you can at least MITIGATE the symptoms it creates, though it may be a very long time before you fully cure the disease.

Peace