Gun-control legislation is not the issue here.

Gun-control legislation in the United States is just another underlying symptom of the same issue that this latest tragedy is also a symptom of. America's gun-control legislation is an expression of the kind of Society that Americans live in, and want and choose to live in. The UK's gun-control legislation is also an expression of the kind of Society that Britons want to live in.

Gun-control legislation in the United States is an expression of Americans' fears about their own neighbours. America's gun-control legislation is an expression of the paranoia and anxiety felt by many Americans during their everyday lives. America's gun-control legislation is not a cherished Constitutional heirloom; it is an expression of the Fear that haunts many Americans' lives on a continual basis.

Were the United States to enact the same kind of gun-control legislation practiced in virtually all civilised First-World countries, the effects would be futile at best, but most likely catastrophic. Many Americans - many MALE Americans - simply aren't equipped to function in a Society that doesn't all but mandate that its citizens go about their daily lives lethally armed.

Look at the responses from those who advocate complete legal freedom to possess whatever weaponry makes them feel safer. The emotional content of their responses clearly shows the unbalancing effect that Fear has upon their lives, and their perspectives on life. The prospect of not being able to go about their normal lives, in the United States of America, without carrying the means to instantly terminate the life of another human being, truly terrifies them.

Possessing weapons as a hobby is I know, as enjoyable a past time as any other. Firing weapons at targets on a shooting range incites the same kind of interest and passion in people as racing cars, playing football, and as I understand it, fishing. I've certainly enjoyed every trip to a firing range I've ever made, and I look forward to the day that I'll be able to take my son to a firing range so that he can enjoy the thrill of firing a precision weapon. At a target.

If you live in a violent neighbourhood, a neighbourhood you know presents a real chance of exposing you to dangerous, life-threatening violence, then it would seem to be the most rational thing to carry a weapon of your own, in case you should need to defend yourself. I think the reason that the US enacting European-style gun-control legislation would be catastrophic, is simply that the genie is already out of the bottle, so to speak.

Gun-control legislation in the United Kingdom, prior to the Hungerford tragedy in 1987, and the Dunblane tragedy in 1996, was tailored to suit those who wanted to legally own a firearm. And that was mostly gun-club members, and farmers. It wasn't that the majority of British citizens couldn't get hold of a weapon if they wanted to; but simply that most British citizens had neither the desire nor saw the need to legally own a firearm. Most British citizens then, and now, were neither gun-club members, nor farmers.

There simply is no gun-culture in British Society, nor has there ever been. There is an increasing gun-culture outside of British Society, in the criminal underclass, and about those so disaffected by Society, that they are about to join the criminal underclass. Mercifully though, that culture is growing very slowly, it remains at present a culture that exists only on a very small scale amongst the criminal underclass. There is no culture of gun-ownership outside of the criminal underclass and within British Society.

The UK's gun-control legislation reflects this lack of a gun-culture within British Society. Perhaps if there were a Royal Rifle Club, then there might be sufficient political pressure to enact a change in the UK's gun-control legislation, but there isn't, so there won't be any change.

If anything, there is a culture within the UK that treats enthusiasm for weapon ownership with social and moral disdain. Just as - apparently - the gun enthusiasts treat the Virginia Tech tragedy as justification for weapons to be made more prevalent in US Society; EXACTLY the same incident is treated by most British people as justification for weapons to be made less prevalent.

The incredulity shown by most Britons, Europeans and Antipodeans towards the relationship between America's gun-control laws and incidents like the Virginia Tech tragedy, stems from a (possibly wilful) lack of understanding about the relationship between America's gun-control laws and America's gun-culture. The former reflects the latter, not the other way around. The United States' Government could no more effectively enforce a total ban on gun-control ownership than the United Kingdom Government can enforce a ban on speeding above 70mph.

If Americans are to ever live in a Society without an all-pervasive (and tragic) gun-culture, then Americans have to change their moral and ideological attitude to their culture built around lethal weapons. Legislation will be - and probably should be - the last thing to change. Only when all law-abiding members of American Society have responsibly and graciously allowed their weapons to fall from their still-warm hands, would it be practical or appropriate to enact legislation, which might necessitate Society having to pry it instead, from their cold, dead hand.

I think the problem is that Fear is so personal an emotion that it makes it very difficult to discuss issues directly related to those fears, in a broader social context.

It is the nature of these debates that it is only a matter of time before some doughty soul asks another allegedly less-doughty soul a hypothetical question. This hypothetical question will almost certainly involve some improbably-armed individual bursting into the home of the allegedly less-redoubtable soul, and wreaking blue murder on everything held dear. The implication of the hypothesis being, of course, that possession of a hand-gun would allow a fearless soul to competently and rigorously place a supersonic bullet between the eyes of the marauder, and make society once more safe for the pursuit of happiness.

Hypothetically, in Britain such a situation must morally and ideologically appeal to a sense of what is best for British Society and Society in general. Since one is in no immediate physical danger from the hypothesis, one can leisurely reflect on the implications of one's potential responses to it.

Unfortunately, the idea that one should demand a heavily-armed (and obviously violent) Society, just so that one could save one's own hypothetical skin (or even the skin of just one hypothetical family), is abhorrent to most Briton's innate sense of decency. Better to sacrifice one's self, hypothetically, than see a whole Society subsumed by a weapons culture that must inevitably lead to greater violence and death.

Hypothetically speaking.

When we consider issues within a broader social context, we have to, if at all possible, do so dispassionately and as rationally as we can. What practical solutions are there to the problem? What can we actually do in the short-term? What can we actually do in the long-term?

Instead, what usually happens is that we get stuck in the blame game.

Because we are divided ideologically, our energies go into defending our own position, and attacking any and all alternative positions. We become so consumed by our passions in defending or promoting our feelings about these, highly emotionally-charged social issues that we forget to actually look at our own ideas to see if they are even still valid.

Enacting stiffer gun-control legislation in the United States would have no positive impact whatsoever on the prevalence of firearm crime in American Society.

Fear is a most powerful emotion, it is narcotic in effect. With the exception of those who possess weapons expressly for killing animals or target shooting, American firearms owners possess their weapons purely as an expression of their Fear. Exciting that Fear, which owning, using, desiring and talking about weapons does, produces adrenalin; it is the adrenalin that creates the narcotic effect of Fear.

Prohibition of the means to gain this narcotic effect would be as effective as alcohol and drug prohibition.

Furthermore, forced withdrawal from legal access to the source of this narcotic effect would cause many to find illegal access to same.

Enacting stiffer gun-control legislation in the United States would create disastrous consequences for every-day American Society. With the number of weapons that exist within the United States, it would become a War zone.

Fear is not irrational.

There are very, very good reasons why we experience the emotion of Fear. We might live in a rough neighbourhood, perhaps where shootings or armed burglaries are too common an occurrence. That is a very good reason why we might experience Fear. Living in such a neighbourhood, legally acquiring a weapon of our own, and learning how to use it safely and effectively (with the hope that we never would have to), is a very rational thing for us to do.

Glorifying and celebrating our gun culture is not a rational thing to do.

A Society with a gun culture is a shame. Rationally, carrying personal firearms protection might be the responsible thing to do; shouting and celebrating the fact betrays an unfortunate misunderstanding about the ideal of a Peaceful Society. The need for a citizenry to conduct its daily business while lethally-armed is not a mark of distinction for a society, it is a badge of shame. It is not something to be shouted about and celebrated; it is a quiet shame that needs to be dealt responsibly and practically.

When mourning the latest tragedy that is an inevitable side-effect of America's gun culture, gun advocates must consider their own responsibility. They must also consider what they themselves might be willing to sacrifice, if anything, to tackle the systemic social dysfunction that is America's gun culture. What rights might they consider forgoing? What might they be willing to surrender?

How much more Fear would they be willing to endure, so that others might endure less?

Gun-control legislation is not the issue here.

Greater legal use of firearms within society is not the answer here.

The answer to our immediate personal issue (that of feeling afraid) may well be cold, hard steel; but it is not the answer to the much broader social issue.

The broad social issue is that American Society is caught in a negative emotional spiral. As much as America Fears, it reacts in a way that can only increase those Fears. As much as America's response to the violence of 9/11 was to impose yet more violence on the source of that violence; America's gun culture responds to the Virginia Tech tragedy, by calling for yet more violence to be threatened. As if the increased likelihood of being shot by a gun-wielding citizen will in any way dissuade these suicidal glory-seekers.

The parallels between Virginia Tech and Iraq could not be starker.

It was President Franklin D. Roosevelt who used the phrase, "We have nothing to Fear, but Fear itself.", and he knew a lot more about Americans than I.

America has to stop fighting itself; America has to stop killing itself.

America has to stop Fearing itself.

That isn't achieved by frightening all the scary things away.

It is usually achieved by recognising that the only thing that you are actually frightened of, is your own imagination.

Peace