[quote="El Sid"][color=#0080FF]I'm drunk and not doing too well atm, so cut me a little slack.

Faggots. ;-)[/color][/quote]

You know Sid, it's not easy being a guy - particularly an English or pseudo-English (American, Australian, Canadian &c.) guy.

We've got all these Emotions swirling around inside of us, and barely the language or the Freedom of Gender to express them. Somehow, we've got to try and convert those Emotions into some form of expression that does not undermine the image we each try and present to the World.

We have all spent our life-times carefully constructing our public-facing aspect as something cool, calm, collected and utterly impervious to external disturbance... And yet, all that hard-work can be lost in the instant it takes for our usually suppressed feelings to spill over and out of the vessel we normally try to keep them contained in.

Women and faggots just don't know they're born..! They have a feeling, and without a moment's hesitation, they're sharing it with the World with the automatic assumption that the Rest of the World should give a fuck... Hell, if they suspect for an instant that the Rest of the World does *NOT* give a fuck, that only makes them all the more Emotionally expressive..!

And that's just not the Way of the True Man.

A True Man will suppress everything he feels. A True Man will not display a flicker of emotion about anything he has ever experienced. A True Man will always maintain the Illusion that not a thing in the World can affect him.

A True Man will suppress his reactions to all the pain and horror he has experienced in his Life. A True Man will deny that anything that could occur might Emotionally unbalance him.

A True Man will *NEVER* show any weakness!

Well... Kind of...

Storming off into the hills, in a blaze of gunfire, might just betray a slight weakness... Charging around an elementary school spraying bullets at young children might just suggest a failure to effectively process one's emotional responses.

Expressing continual frustrations at the State of the World; pointing the finger of blame at Everyone and Everything else for the lack of contentment in one's own Life, might hint at a personal deficiency when it comes to resolving one's personal challenges.

Self-destructive behaviour, like excessive smoking, drinking, eating, drug-taking, and other very slow motion forms of suicide might indicate that one isn't completely happy and at Peace with one's own Life...

The clues might just be there for all to see, if one knows where to look.

There's a *LOT* of Emotion pent up in a *LOT* of men in this World Sid. And there's very, very few of them that are managing to hide that fact, so I really don't know why they even bother trying.

There's nothing wrong with "negative" Emotion. In fact, the only thing that really makes a feeling "negative", is our own attempts to negate them: to bottle them up and suppress them; to pretend they don't exist.

This World would be a much happier place, if more men learned how to express and release their Emotions.

Apart from anything else, they would learn very rapidly that they are not, in fact, alone.

A thought that is behind a lot of those Emotions we men try so unsuccessfully to hide.

:>_