In Reply To #67

In Reply To #42

Which explains your av. Doesn't explain your name though.

That's true.

Alright, try this:

WE are all One Consciousness, Experiencing Itself subjectively.

In order to Experience Who We Are, we must be able to begin by Experiencing and Understanding who we are Not; and then Experience becoming Who We Are.

In order to Understand that We are All One Conscious Identity; we must begin by Experiencing our Self as being NOT All One Conscious Identity.

The only way that One Conscious Identity can Experience Being NOT One Conscious Identity, is to take on the ILLUSION that We Are NOT One Conscious Identity.

When we play a Game like "Battlefield 2", we try to take on the Illusion that we are "Real" soldiers and pilots in a "Real" and "Immersive" Game.

The Ideal Game is, of course, one that is SO immersive and realistic, than we can completely forget that it IS, just a Game.

It is for this reason that we dislike griefers and exploiters, who constantly remind us that we are NOT, in fact, in a "Real" Environment; but that we are just in an Environment we are trying to PRETEND is Real.

When we encounter those in the Illusory Reality of a Game, who remind us that it is a less than perfect Illusion, by exploiting the limitations of the technology that creates that "Reality", our Immersive Experience is spoiled.

Our Human Life Experience is built on FLAWLESS Technology; but is no less an Illusion.

In the Human Life Experience Game, we have the opposite problem to that which we find in multi-player computer Games.

The Human Life Experience is SO immersive, SO "Realistic", SO unlikely to be, "Just a Game", that we have many, many People who REFUSE to countenance the idea that it may just be a Game of Illusion.

That isn't to say that those who do not Believe that Life is an Illusion are in the wrong, or somehow mistaken. The Whole Point of the Human Life Experience is based on its ability to seem unquestionably REAL.

But those of us who REFUSE to consider that Life may not be as "REAL" as we have been taught, and in many cases, ORDERED to Believe, have a great deal of difficulty maintaining that refusal. And they have an even GREATER difficulty, allowing those who believe differently to them, to go on believing differently.

By contrast, those who care neither one way nor the other about the True Nature of Life and Reality, don't seem to suffer the same difficulty and anguish: they just get on with The Game.

And, those of us who HAVE noticed that Really, Life *IS* just an Illusion - but don't let that awareness get in the way of a Good Game - seem to breeze effortlessly through Life. :)

I UNDERSTAND that we are All One Consciousness, Experiencing Itself Subjectively, through the Game of Illusion.

And I UNDERSTAND that there is no Greater Illusion, than the Illusion of Separation.

The Illusion that we are separate and distinct from one another; the Illusion that we are separate and distinct from the Natural Environment within which we Exist; the Illusion that we are somehow separate and disparate from the Energy of the Universe: the Energy that Is ALL THAT IS.

When groups of humans collectively describing their Spirituality, through the language and meaning of their different and multifarious Experience and Culture, produce a text they claim to be religiously authoritative; it is the Illusion of Separation that makes them believe that their different interpretation (of the Same Thing) can not co-exist ideologically with other, different interpretations.

The Illusion of Separation makes some people believe that THERE CAN ONLY BE ONE TRUTH.

Except the Illusion of Separation, and ALL TRUTHS become True; True, from a given perspective. The only way to UNDERSTAND the Whole and Absolute Truth, is to be able to see the Truth from ALL perspectives. And the only way to do that, is to let go of the Illusion of Separation.

But doing so would, in the process, Blow Your Mind. :)

So, I can not be a "Christian-Man"; I can not be a "Muslim-Man" or a "Jewish-Man"; I can not be a "Buddhist-Man", a "Hindu-Man", or a "Sikh-Man".

These Religions each provide only a PART of the Whole Picture.

I can not be an "English-Man", I can not be a "European-Man", I can't EVEN be a "Human-Man" nor even a "Man-Man"; since these describe only a PART of Who I Am.

I am, therefore, Wholly-Man.

But since this might inadvertently excite some of the more, uh, vicarious Netizens one meets on one travels; and since describing one's Self in a way that gets RIGHT UP the noses of those who refuse to consider the idea that Life is anything but a GREAT GAME...

Well, like I always say: if the cap fits, wear it.

And since this is advice I give to many others; and since those "many others" are, ultimately, and without the Illusion of Separation: Me.

It would be churlish, and not to say a little hypocritical, if I didn't take my own advice.

Hence: