In Reply To #31

In Reply To #30

Every single choice made impacts someone else's in some way.  You may not think that it does but that is your perception.  All our choices do impact our society in general.

On the contrary: *I* think every choice made impacts EVERYONE else, in some way.

This is because *I* understand Everyone to be the same, single consciousness, Experiencing itself subjectively through individuation.

The issue with our Lifestyle choices is: do those choices affect some or all others, positively or negatively?

Take for instance polygamy, it doesnt affect anyone really but the participants but the government does not recognize that as a valid marriage.  So saying well my choices dont affect anyone but me therefore they are ok to make isnt really true, unless youre the only person in the world.

Polygamy doesn't HAVE to affect anyone outside of those consenting to participate in polygamous marriages and relationships.

Same with homosexuality.

It is NOT the same with paedophilia or bestiality, because the participants who define the nature of those, uh, "relationships", are not in a position to communicate their consent, and/or understand the nature of the consent they might give.

If people choose to practice polygamy, or homosexuality, within a group of people who consent to participate in such relationships, that in no way directly affects anyone outside of those groups.

Such relationships do, however, affect SOME people outside of those groups; but only because those certain people CHOOSE themselves, to be affected by the nature of other peoples' relationships.

The whole World can approve of polygamous or homosexual marriages, as far as I'm concerned. I neither approve nor disapprove: it is of supreme irrelevance to me. I do not CHOOSE to be affected by the nature of other peoples' choices about how they relate to one another.

Secondary smoking is a much better example of how our personal choices CAN affect those who do NOT choose their Self, to be affected by the choices of others.

If people CHOOSE to be offended by the Lifestyle and "morality" choices of others, choices that do not and can not directly impact them negatively; then, well, that is their choice.

But THEY shouldn't expect OTHERS to choose to be affected by THEIR choices about morality.

Peace