Well thank you for your wise, kind and welcome words Sid.

I would first draw your attention to the opening two paragraphs in my response:

[quote][color=blue] One of the most insidious attributes of your sophistry is the way that your responses compel an engagement from otherwise reasonable and rational individuals, into your murky, intellectually dishonest and utterly dysfunctional pathology.By now, I should know better than to set foot in the sticky mass of your mental effluvia. But just as the same morbid curiosity compels other sensible and sane individuals to repeatedly engage with your brother's frankly bonkers belief about the supremacy of the Biblical Narrative; so too do I and others tread carelessly and at our own peril into the equally contorted self-regard you have with your own views on matters political and social.[/color][/quote]

Actually, the thought that was going through my mind as I contemplated if and how I might respond to EvilFitch, was the recognition that however I played it, there could be no "win" in it for me.

The simple act of allowing myself to get sucked into another of his torturous bouts of sophism was my primary point of failure. I could have just walked, or, like you say, could have just let rip with a volley of abuse. Since there was (and is) no chance of a "win" with that type of personality, I had nothing more to gain: only more to lose.

But as I declared, I *WAS* being (and have been) driven by a morbid curiosity with regard to EvilFitch. I also figured that most others would have already switched off, when first glance revealed another thread buried under mountains of words from he and I. So I felt that what I was writing was as much a Private Message as anything else.

And as with so many (if not all) of my posts, it was as much about writing to see what came out of me, as it was any specific message I wanted to convey to him. Just as this message I am typing to you right now has no predefined purpose, other than an opportunity to reveal to myself how I feel about what you have just written.

And that is, to me, the real magic and purpose of Forums such as these. In what previous form of Human communication was there ever an opportunity provided so accessibly, for individuals to shape and order their thoughts so frequently and so fervently? And through such a process, to really explore and understand who we are, and what it is we truly feel is most important in our lives?

And with such a view as that, how can I not see one such as EvilFitch as so inimical to the pursuit and development of such a purpose?

Someone as troubled and with such a low sense of self-worth as EvilFitch can and does only blight the culture that we have here. And you've got to bear in mind Sid, that one way or another, I'm a fucking magnet for these types (see also TED & SomeGuy). And whilst I can and do make allowances for TED's medical condition, and SomeGuy's autism, it reaches the point with EvilFitch where I can no longer be bothered to put up with such unwanted attentions.

Why should I?

I participate with this Forum in order to relax. It's a good place to intellectually unwind, and for almost the whole part, I enjoy the company. I know that I've only got myself to blame for having engaged with these Internet equivalents of a venereal disease in the past, and have to accept that I'm going to have to endure recurrent inflammations for as long as I'm here. But surely even I'm allowed to break my Zen-like calm every once in a while, and give them a damn good (though unavoidably counter-productive) scratch.

As far as being unto EvilFitch as he is unto me goes... Well that's all part of the Fun of the Fair, isn't it.

I would hope you would acknowledge Sid that I don't ever try and nakedly assert an intellectual superiority with anyone else. I might occasionally exhibit such a superiority; but that's only incidental, and try as I might, I can't always make a sow's ear out of a silk purse. ;)

No, EvilFitch chose the battlefield and the weapons for our duel; and if he is that insecure about his own intelligence that he wants to test his mettle against mine, I'm happy enough to oblige. Satirising his obsession with his own superiority and the psychological evidence of (in fact) his low self-esteem, well, that's just my battle-stance, when I realise I've stupidly allowed myself to once more get sucked into his dysfunctional vortex.

But I don't bully the physically disabled and mentally disadvantaged for laughs Sid. EvilFitch is a more malignant form of the same kind of cyst that SomeGuy is a benign form of. They're both individuals who don't have the wit and awareness to realise when they are outgunned and unwanted.

There *WAS* (and is) a tenderness in my response to EvilFitch:

[quote][color=blue] But it doesn't have to be that way. You don't have to be the way you are.Change the way that you see the World, change the way that you behave towards the World, and you will see the World, and your reflection in it, change too.[/color][/quote]

Though it wasn't delivered with much anticipation of it falling on anything but deaf ears, it did reflect a sincere intention.

Finally, on your sensing a "certain defensiveness regarding formal education"...

Umm, with all due respect Sid, that's a lazy psychological stereotype.

I dropped out of college half-way through my 'A'-levels because... I *REALLY* couldn't be fucking arsed with the course- and home-work. And I still can't be bothered with academic study.

Again, with all due respect to your profession Sid, our Educational and Academic systems are totally fucked up.

All the way through school, college and university, we are supposed to learn facts, conclusions and the analyses of others by rote. When we are examined, we are required to regurgitate all the stuff that we have been inculcated with; and are then given a (Government approved) score that is supposed to indicate how generically intelligent (or not) we are.

The curricula is imposed upon us, and it isn't until University at the earliest that we can hope for a syllabus that is specifically tailored to us as individuals.

It's exactly like the Pink Floyd video for "Another Brick in the Wall Part 2 ('We Don't Need No Education')". We feed our children's minds into a meat grinder, then turn the handle to produce a generic paste that, if it doesn't learn anything else, ought to have learned the importance of conformity.

C'mon Sid: how many individual children must you have taught in your career? Can you really argue against the idea that your employers required you to channel and shape all those varied and unique minds into pre-defined moulds?

Sorry mate, but I'm a complete Hippy with regard to Education. Let children explore and learn whatever the fuck they want to learn, however they want to learn it.

The value of School, as far as I'm concerned, is the social education. It is where young humans learn how to interact with one another; where they learn how to communicate, integrate, tolerate, relate and engage with one another. The academic aspect is entirely secondary, and probably superfluous.

Honestly Sid, truthfully, sincerely: I do not regret or lament for a second my lack of an advanced academic education.

Far from it, in fact. I use it as something of a Badge of Honour.

My innate intelligence and intellectual agility is something that is evidently clear for all to see. I really *ENJOY* the looks of genuine surprise when people ask me where (and how) I was educated, and I tell them it was at the University of Life (with a Doctorate from the Post-Graduate School of Hard Knocks).

My parents gave me the tools of reading (Mum), writing (Mum & Dad) and arithmetic (Dad). Everything else, I decided and selected for myself.

And honestly Sid, if I get the chance to go back and start again, I'll do it exactly the same way.

Expertise in a particular subject or skill *IS* something that can be taught and learned. But like you say, you've got to decide first what it is you want to become expert in, before you can begin the training. And that just seems to me to be arse-about-face.

I've been working as an IT (mostly) Professional for the last 22 years, and I continue to do very well out of it, thank you very much for asking. It has served as a great foundation for my exploring other avenues of business, something I continue to enjoy doing. But even if I had known that was what I was going to be good at, there simply wasn't any educational syllabus available for it when I was at school.

Might have been different if I'd wanted to be a programmer. Just as the PC revolution was taking off, and all the Visual Code and object oriented code languages were coming into their own, I could still have gone to University and studied PASCAL and COBOL programming for mainframes... If I'd been that naïve...

But I wasn't; and I didn't. And there just weren't any academic courses available to teach me about technology that was only just being invented. So I figured I'd start working and just pick it up as I went along.

So I did.

As far as allowing that EvilFitch "...probably [has] received a better education than I ever needed." Well, I'm not saying I'm proud of it, but if you read into the language I used a bit, you'll see that what I was actually saying was:

[color=blue][i]"Ha-ha! Your parents tried as hard as they could to force some kind of ability and facility into you: but you're still fucking useless! LOL! My parents didn't even bother trying to educate me, and I've *STILL* got a brain the size of a planet!!!"[/i][/color]

Like I said: not saying I'm proud of my behaviour...

Aaaaaany-hoo.

I take your points on-board Sid. As ever, =PBF='s Elder Statesman offers wise counsel, even to one as cosmologically confident and intelligent as I.

EvilFitch will doubtlessly have some words of his own to offer up. So I'll prepare to observe that discretion is often the better part of valour.

Another wise man once cautioned about staring into the Abyss, less the Abyss stares into me.

So perhaps it is Time that I avert my gaze. :)

[face_peace]