[quote="Slacks"][color=#80FF00]I like Holyman's view of how a world should be.[/color][/quote]

Hmm... Yeah, alright then Slacks, I agree with your PM, I'll start a new topic for this, rather than have it in..: [b]"U.S. Military to allow women in combat roles"...[/b]

So if you're sitting comfortably, let's start with the basics.

[quote="Slacks"][color=#80FF00] Things that immediately spring to mind though:

- In a region of high crime, high unemployment etc, with little prospect of raising a decent level of regional tax revenue, how would that community be able to tackle it's social problems without income or subsidies from a higher governmental body? Would it be down to other regional bodies to decide to help out, or leave it to it's own devices (natural selection and all that)[/color][/quote]

In my World, the only thing that will be compulsorily enforced is a prohibition against non-consensual acts of violence.

If two boxers, wrestlers, Tae Kwon Do fighters want to square off against each other, with a set of rules they both agree to and consent to, that's absolutely fine (can be quite entertaining actually).

If one group or community wants to use automatic rifles, tanks, fighter jets, artillery and aerial bombardment against another group or community, that's fine too, provided that anyone and everyone who could conceivably get hurt, first supplies their explicit consent to participate in the "War". Whilst there is the slightest chance of anyone getting hurt who does not consent to being hurt, the "War"/"Battle"/whatever, must wait until everyone who doesn't want to be involved has removed themselves from the Danger Zone.

I won't labour this point too much, because there is other more interesting stuff to talk about. The point I'm making is that I have no moral objection to violence, and even find it quite entertaining some times, provided that everyone involved with the violence is happy to be involved. You know, like S&M isn't really my bag, but some people clearly get off on it; and if no-one is getting hurt who doesn't want to be hurt, who am I to object to or take offence at that?

Alright? So like many of the points I'm about to make, I'm going to try and express the general idea, without getting too bogged down in the specifics of policies that may or may not work for every single conceivable situation...

So that's violence taken care of then. Non-consensual violence will be a criminal act. Offenders will be incarcerated, taken care of and rehabilitated. Enough said.

Other than that, I think everything else ought to be decided at the Community Level, on a Community-by-Community basis. There's probably a fairly obvious consensus about what works and what doesn't work with Collective Social Living. But it ought to be up to each Community to decide how to manage Crime and Punishment.

Just three caveats on that:

Violence is prohibited, and so that includes State violence: so no Capital or corporal punishment. It is either incarceration at the Community's expense; or it is expulsion.

Currently, most civilised societies have established a point at which a child becomes an adult, in the eyes of Society and the Law. In most places, that means that the child's criminal record (if they have one), is expunged or sealed, and they get to start all over again. In Holyworld, when a child comes of age (and it'll be up to each Society/Community to decide when that is, within obvious reason), they get to choose if they want to remain in that Society/Community and abide by that Society's Laws.

Any adult may leave a Society of their own Free Will, at any time other than when they are incarcerated for having broken that Society's/Community's laws. Although, I would anticipate that the most logical thing for a Society to do would be to always offer the option of exile (permanent or temporary), in place of an expensive term of incarceration.

Again, won't get bogged down in the "Yeah, but, what if's..." here. Hope you get the general gist.

Alright then, what happens when a Community or Society isn't working then..?

Like you say, what if the people in that Community really aren't working? Unemployment is high, tax revenues are down, everything is falling apart, nobody's doing anything..!?!

Alright, well, clearly that Community can be fairly said to have fucked it up then.

Whatever else can be said of that Community - about its hopes, dreams, and stated aspirations - clearly it has failed to sort out the basics. And without a solid basic foundation, you can dream about reaching for the Stars, but you aren't ever going to get there.

So here then, it won't be the human beings who live in that Community who fall victim to Natural Selection, but the Community itself. And that's no bad thing, because a Society/Community that has failed to sort out the basic essentials for survival, shouldn't be artificially supported. It is, after all, only an abstract based on a shared ideology and whatever Rules & Regulations its founders dreamed up.

So what happens to the human beings who once lived in that Community?

Well, here's the really fortunate thing about Humanity: human beings are basically decent people, kind-hearted, generous, sympathetic and compassionate.

Not every human being is like that, of course, but by far the greater majority are. Just look how many people are involved in voluntary and philanthropic work. There are far, far more human beings providing aid and assistance to other human beings, than there are human beings trying to acquire as much money as they can in a single lifetime.

That's not me being purely optimistic: that is a basic fact of Human Life. And I'll happily meet any challenge to that statement of fact.

Oh, we hear a lot from certain sections of Humanity who despise "scroungers", "piss-takers", "fraudsters", "people who are trying to live off other people's hard work": but that's just common sense. Any intelligent member of a Society should and will feel that way about the lazy, cynical, fraudulent and criminal.

And equally, any intelligent member of a Society will be able to recognise the difference between someone who just can't be arsed (or who works in the Finance Sector), and another human being who is genuinely and sincerely in need, for whatever reasons.

It's an innate ability that most of us have. It doesn't need to be reduced to policy or means testing. It certainly shouldn't be reduced to a process managed by politicians. We can all identify genuine need.

So, when those societies and communities that set out with such high ideals, eventually fail for an inability to manage the fundamentals, the humans who were once a part of those societies and communities will receive assistance from those communities who *HAVE* mastered the basics.

And *NOT* because the Communities that have got their shit together will be forced to assist and support the people of the failed Communities (nothing apart from Peace is compulsory). The assistance and support will come entirely voluntarily, because certain types of humans are just like that, it's just who they are.

Chances are, those types of humans will have links with all the other Communities that share similar sentiments. Perhaps they will form some inter-Community support network. With a bit of practice and experience - and no interference from politicians or soldiers - I'm sure they'll have it cracked in no time at all.

I mean, look at the links that Human Societies have forged in the interests of Self-Defence. Look at how much money is raised and contributed to Military Alliances. Something like N.A.T.O. is just an inter-Society support network, an entirely voluntary association that came together because of mutual self-interest.

In particular, one nation within the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation recognised its own spectacular capacity for ensuring adequate "Defence". It chose (and continues to choose) to share that capacity with any other national society that felt (feels) it could contribute to and benefit from belonging to such a co-operative...

And the really Good News is that compared to the amount of money spent on "Defence" every year by all Human Societies, the amount needed to ensure every human being on the Planet has access to all of Life's basic necessities is a pittance.

Now of course, not every Community or Society will feel inclined to contribute to such a mutual support network. And that would be entirely their right. The fact that they did not contribute to the mutual support network would not even prohibit them from receiving support from the network, if it were ever needed.

Everything would be voluntary.

Especially taxation.

See, absent colossal military expenditure, the massive expense of running enormous National and Federal bureaucracies, and the inherently corrupting effect on governments controlling any form of spending, everything gets much, much cheaper.

I keep an eye on these things, as you know, and by my estimation, without all the waste and corruption that governments and businesses currently create, this Whole Human System could run a total tax rate of absolutely no more than 10% tops.

Really: no individual or corporation should be paying more than 10% of what they earn in a year into a collective social fund. The smaller the Society or Community: the smaller the bureaucracy and the smaller the spending requirement. We've eliminated military spending remember, and we're also eliminating "National Security". Corporations and individuals must still be able to protect their intellectual property, of course, but there'll be no reason for any Community's Government to keep secrets from its people. Self-protection and secret-keeping is where most of the fucking money gets spent... That and delivering Centralised Services to a non-homogenous population.

The Conservatives are absolutely correct on this point, IMO. Government should be next to non-existent; and therefore the cost of Government should be all but negligible.

Unfortunately, most Conservatives then undermine a sensible position by insisting on a huge military capability and massively complex Trade Protection programme... But I've dealt with that already.

So yes, tax at no more than 10%, and in all likelihood, entirely voluntary: though that would of course be up to individual Communities to decide for themselves. And where taxes are a purely voluntary affair, I'm sure that would go hand-in-hand with an obvious transparency when it comes to knowing how much everyone had or hadn't contributed...

[quote="Slacks"][color=#80FF00]- How would regions be able to predict their likely requirements and allocate resources for health, education etc. if people can move in and out of their regions at will and without restriction?[/color][/quote]

Hmm... Oh, okay, I see what you are saying.

Alright, well, nothing is compulsory. So there would be no obligation implied or expressed on a Community to take care of people who suddenly turn up in their region.

Everything is going to be happening on a much smaller basis remember? Maybe smaller even than towns and villages. What's to stop the residents of a single cul-de-sac declaring independence from the hamlet they live in?

Nothing.

If they have secure access to the services they require to exist, everything else is just ideology and luxury.

I'm pretty much working on the principle here that when the Human Race is no longer spending $2-3 trillion a year on things to kill each other with, that just a fraction of that expenditure will be used to provide clean water, basic nutrition, healthcare, energy supplies and shelter to every human being that needs it but can't afford to pay for it themselves.

Once those basics are assured (and Oxfam and other reliable organisations reckon that much of this really can be done for *ONE-OFF* payments that are far less than the *ANNUAL* military expenditure of the World), well, I think there will be much less migration in any case.

Remember, apart from white Australians, New Zealanders and South Africans, most humans that leave their country of birth to live and work elsewhere don't do it out of choice, but out of necessity. Life is that nasty, brutal and short where they are born, that rather sensibly they decide to try and get somewhere Life is a bit easier.

But if the basic necessities of Life are assured, and militarised violence is a thing of the past, there are going to be far fewer people feeling forced to move around.

[quote="Slacks"][color=#80FF00]- Groups of people seem to unconsciously seek other groups to join up with, or are at least apathetic when their groups drift into federations. What mechanisms would be in place to ensure that regions did not form larger regions that start to form distinctly nation-like characteristics?[/color][/quote]

Nothing.

No mechanisms. No prohibitions. There's only the restriction against the use of violence.

If humans want to join up with others to form larger and larger blocs, that's their choice: it's a Free World, after all.

But perhaps you've hit the nail on the head with, [i]"Groups of people seem to [b]*UNCONSCIOUSLY*[/b] seek other groups..."[/i]

It's all about Consciousness: it's all about what we do Consciously.

If a clear majority of people consciously and actively desire to do something, then their will is likely to be done. Equally, if a loud, crass, boorish minority of people have got the time and energy to stand around shouting and demanding that certain things must happen; and the majority of people just decide to go along with it, because they frankly can't be bothered arguing: then the will of the minority will be done.

Nobody does anything wrong, given their own perspective on the World.

Even Hitler believed he was doing the right thing: the right thing for Germany and for Germans; and more broadly, the right thing for Humanity. Given his view of the World, the way his perspective had been shaped, the way his ideology had formed, not only did he feel it was absolutely right to do what he did: he felt it would have been morally wrong for him to *NOT* do what he did.

Of course, those of us who aren't Adolf Hitler, now have the objectivity to be able to see him for what he was: a sociopathic demagogue. However, there were a *LOT* of people around Hitler at the time who were happy to go along with him. For a few, it was a conscious action: they saw opportunities for power and self-advancement. But for millions of others, it was just something they did unconsciously, without really thinking too much about it.

But now, here we all are, we've made it to the 21st Century, and we're now able to pretty much communicate with anyone, anywhere. Propaganda is on its last legs because we have a powerful facility to fact-check anything "Our Leaders" tell us. Fact of the matter is that there are now enough of us who are sufficiently intellectually and anthropologically emancipated, that we no longer have much use for "Leaders". We're no longer inclined to just "go along with things", because someone "in authority" tells us we ought to.

And that really is a phenomenon that our generation has yet to fully appreciate, I feel.

For most of our parents, and certainly our grand-parents, there was a natural and inherent deference to authority and people in positions of "power". But now, thanks in no small part to the pioneering work of those humans who participated in the Counter-Cultural backlash of the 1960's, we're now nearly all able to spot that kind of bullshit a mile off.

And we certainly don't take it seriously any more. Thank God.

Anything we might do these days, will be done consciously, with our own independent thought motivating us to do, or not do.

If groups of people drift together into larger and larger groups because they consciously, independently and individually consider it the correct thing to *ACTIVELY* do: then why on Earth should they be prevented from doing so?

That sort of thing is only problematic when apathy and a lack of consciousness allows the power of the masses to be hijacked and harnessed by those with a clearly defined and rarely benevolent agenda.

[quote="Slacks"][color=#80FF00]- As the most powerful armed entity on earth, what would stop the 'UN' from abusing it's power?[/color][/quote]

As well as being the most powerful armed entity on Earth; the "UN" (or whatever) would also be the *ONLY* armed entity on Earth, powerful or otherwise.

Therefore it would be a bit short of targets to abuse its power on.

[quote="Slacks"][color=#80FF00]- What mechanisms would be in place to stop commercial monopolies from assuming greater and greater power over people's material standard of living?[/color][/quote]

Primarily the fact that they would find it very difficult to conceal their actions.

We're already starting to see it these days, with particular regard to the way that Global enterprises like Amazon, Starbucks and Google have been forced to respond to the exposure of their tax practices.

A few simple revelations about their tax affairs, and they have to engage in some rapid action to prevent their brand from becoming poisoned.

As much as we might imagine these commercial behemoths as unassailable, they bigger they are, the far more fragile they become.

Look at how Apple is now imploding, following the death of Steve Jobs. Who'd have thunk that a year or so ago? Even Rupert Murdoch is rightly worried that he now might outlive his Empire, and no-one saw that coming a few years ago.

Who knows, give it a few months, and maybe we'll even see a harpoon or two in Goldman Sachs, the Greatest Vampire Squid of them all..!

Even Roman Emperors used to fear The Mob Slacks. Any corporation ultimately relies on other human beings' willingness to continue doing business with it. Every penny ever spent on advertising, marketing and branding has been an attempt to try and alchemically create that willingness.

But in a consciously awakening World, that kind of shit just isn't flying any more. It's just too difficult to keep secrets any more.

So there you go: said I'd give it some thought, didn't I. :)

Over to you!

:>_