It might seem to be braggadocio to say so, but actually, this kind of motorbike riding isn't as scary or suicidal as it might appear.

Speed is a relative thing, and it's not so much the absolute speed that the motorbike is doing as it is its speed relative to the rest of the traffic. Actually, at 170mph, other traffic on a motorway seems to be virtually stationary. The responsiveness of the motorbike, its ability to accelerate and decelerate means it is fairly easy to pick your way through normal traffic, as this guy demonstrates in his videos.

I only watched the first link, but it's fairly typical of a lot of similar high-speed, motorway runs. Because it is motorway traffic moving at 70-80mph, he's unlikely to encounter any traffic suddenly changing lanes, because car and lorry drivers aren't want to violently wrench their steering wheels from side to side at that kind of speed. He has a close shave at 2:12, when he fails to anticipate the movement of the green van moving to the outside lane; and another one at 4:30 when things get a bit tight again in the outside lane. On both occasions though, he manages to scrub off about 50-60mph quickly enough to actually move past the (moving) obstacles at a relatively lower speed, before accelerating back up to warp speed.

He has to slow right down to the speed of the rest of the traffic at 6:23, because there's less room on the outside shoulder than he's comfortable with, and he passes the vehicles then at essentially the same speed they are travelling at. After that, he has a pretty comfortable warp-speed cruise all the way to the end.

The biggest risk at these speeds on a bike is mechanical failure. Anything that might cause either of the wheels to lock up would mean instant death. But I remember when I used to drive at these kinds of speed, I figured that I'd rather crash at 170+mph and be [b]DEFINITELY[/b] dead, than crash at 70mph and be very-probably-fucked-up-for-life.

Fastest speed I ever saw was riding my Kawasaki ZZR-1100 on the M23 near Gatwick Airport in the South of England, when my speedometer showed 195mph (probably about 175-180mph true speed). That was on a fairly empty motorway on a Sunday morning. Highest speed long distance run I ever managed was from Oulton Park race track in Cheshire, back to my flat in London. I covered 180 miles of mostly motorway, late in the evening, in just over an hour and a half, on the same ZZR-1100. That was an average speed of 135mph, peaking at about 160mph on open stretches.

Thing is, once you get used to travelling at those speeds on a bike, cruising at 100-120mph just seems slow...

But I think the Law of Averages has to come into play at some point. The more time you spend at those kinds of speed, the more likely you will eventually come a cropper. I eventually hung up my high-speed motorcycling gloves following a very low-speed (40mph) crash that wrote my Kawasaki ZX-9R off, and put me in hospital for a couple of days with a lot of bruises and strains. I get my thrills these days weaving through London commuter traffic every day, at relatively modest speeds of about 40-50mph. I still get the same thrill of being able to travel much faster than the sardines in their cars, but without running the same risk of turning myself into a pizza.

[face_peace]