In Reply to #

Ah, hey, just to clear up any possible misunderstandings, before I go on.

My nickname is meant to be irreverent, not disrespectful. I have the utmost respect for any individual choosing a religious path or background for their Life - regardless of which religion or philosophy they choose.

I respect your Life choices as much as I hope you can respect my Life choices. I believe there is much of value for any individual in Holy Scripture.

Where you and I perhaps part company, is that I do not see much value in Holy Scripture, for the Collective, not the way it is being used right now, anyway.

My father was and is a committed atheist; and my mother, a confused and largely disinterested agnostic. There was no religious background at all to my Life - not even from grandparents, other relatives or school. But at age seven, my older brother & I decided to join the Salvation Army tabernacle opposite our house; and I remained an active member of the congregation until I was twelve.

Christianity is taught in equal doses with Temperance by the Salvation Army, and it served me as an excellent foundation course in comparative religion.

Coincidentally to my learning about religion, I also took a very, very keen interest in History at about the same ages. And by about my early teens, I understood enough to articulate clearly to myself and others, what the Institution of Religion meant to Human Society. Whilst I have filled in a lot more detail about our Historical, Religious and Spiritual background since my early teens, my basic conclusions haven't really changed.

Communion and collective congregation for prayer and meditation is an excellent thing, for building strong and cohesive Societies.

What is most important to that collective endeavour, is the coming together in Peace; coming together to share Peace, and Love.

That's it.

On the broadest possible scale of Society - All of Humanity - that is the common purpose served by all Religion, Philosophy and Spirituality: to bring together People in the Spirit of Peace, and ideally, Love.

The idea that the positive energy created by this coming together should be poured into the Worship of One, who by definition, Needs Nothing; seems to me to be, well, a bit of a waste of Time and Energy - particularly since we don't seem to be able to agree what it is exactly He wants...

I mean I think gratitude is a wonderful thing.

You know: being grateful for Being Alive; being grateful for this wonderful opportunity to Experience One's Self; being grateful for the chance to spend this Time Alive with friends and Loved Ones. I think the occasional nod and a wink in the Right Direction is no bad thing; maybe a One-to-One conversation in One's Heart, whilst mowing the lawn on a Sunday afternoon.

I've just never been convinced that the One Who Is, Has, and Will Be Everything, *NEEDS* humans to do anything at all, other than get on and make the most of the Lives they have been given.

And cut the grass, as well...

It is *WE HUMANS* whom we need to direct our Peace, Love and Worship at; it is *WE HUMANS* who get angry, frustrated and hurt if we don't give each other enough attention.

God is by definition: Omnipotent; Omnipresent; Omniscient. A Being that can Do Anything, Be Anywhere, and Know Everything. He *REALLY* can't be relying on a bunch of human beings to manage anything too critical - not if He's *THAT* Smart...

I think we Humans understand this, somewhere in our Collective Sub-Consciousness.

It is, I think, why so much of what flows from the pulpits and minarets is less about Peace and Love, and more about War and Hate. That is, War and Hate for...

The Un-Believers!!! The Infidels!!! The Immoral!!! The Evil!!!

I think the good thing about the Salvation Army, was (and presumably is) that it had "personified" the Devil, in the shape of alcohol. A bottle of gin was a much more tangible and material object for, what can perhaps best be described as "negative worship".

Although the focus on the things that are Wrong in the World was still not as productive as a positive focus on All That Is Right In The World; it was (and is) at least productive in dissuading people from seeking solace and Peace in an intoxicant.

But for other less socially-minded orthodoxies, the "Devil" is usually personified in a stereotypical object of hate.

The absurdity of the current situation dominating Global headlines is that but for many different human interpretations of Religious Scripture, and various Testaments to Communion With God, the three "religions" that most dominate our headlines - Judaism, Christianity and Islam - are in fact, the same Religion.

It is not God's Message that has differed through the Ages; it is Humanity's interpretation of that Message.

Each successive generation, from Abraham, through Moses, Solomon, David, Jesus, Mohammed, Martin Luther, John Calvin, Joseph Smith, to modern day Fundamentalist Christianity, has chosen to reinterpret God's Message. And with each reinterpretation has come schism and sectarianism. If it isn't Protestants fighting Catholics, or Shia fighting Sunni, it will be Christian and/or Jew fighting Muslim.

That possibility for the productivity of Peace and Love that comes from collective and grateful worship, is squandered negatively on incitement to dislike, disapprove of and often destroy Those Who Believe Differently.

And it is all built upon stereotyping.

The homosexual referred to in the pulpits of Fundamentalist Christian churches, is, in fact, somewhere down the line: a Real Live Human Being; a Real Individual; Someone with an Actual Life.

Their homosexuality may well be just an insignificant and incidental aspect to their Life. They *may* be hedonistic nihilists, solely obsessed with stretching their libidos as wide as they will go...

Or, they *may* be the person who History will remember as discovering the Cure for All Cancers.

Chances are though, they'll be somewhere in the middle of whatever ghastly scale I just described. Chances are they will be people like you and I, who just Experience different sexual impulses, to you and I.

No biggie, but before we burn them at the stake, why don't we see what else they are about first?

NB. Whoopnacker: I'm not casting any aspersions on your individual choices or codes of conduct. Thing is, I'm writing about religions using stereotypes to dehumanise and demonise those who have different beliefs and moralities; as such, I've got to respond in kind: to the stereotypical religious person.

You should in no way think that I am directing any of the negatives I have described or implied, personally at you.

Some of my very best friends Believe In God. :)

I suppose the point I *AM* trying to make personally to you, is that we *ARE* allowed to update things from Time to Time.

You know, regardless of their provenance, our Holy Books have helped guide us from being shit-eating cave-dwellers, to being at least capable of not having to live in caves and eat shit, if we don't want to.

All of those people I mentioned up above, *especially* Jesus (though maybe not the Fundamentalist Christians...), questioned the prevailing Religious Understanding of their Time. Jesus questioned it so hard; he ended up nailed to a tree.

Our Holy Books *have* taught us well, and they have brought us a long way. But as all of the above demonstrated, there comes a Time to show God that we are willing to move on a Step, to expand our Understanding and Awareness of Existence and Life.

That doesn't mean we should change things at a whim; it doesn't mean we change our personal and social morality to suit desire or convenience: we need to have a good think about that kind of thing first. We need to come together in Peace, and ideally Love, to see what each other really thinks, about that sort of thing...

If we come together and get all angry and upset, because we know just how abominable and Godforsaken that sort of thing is, how can we guarantee that we won't end up nailing the wrong guy to a tree again?

I don't think anyone is trying to pull approval out of anyone's throats; I just think that a lot of people would like to hear less disapproval spewing forth.

You know, I really think that if God really thought that Humanity's greatest problem was what some men get up to with other men; or if God felt personally affected by such conduct, then He probably would have stepped in around the time of The Village People.

I know I would have...

I'm not saying that God approves of men getting oiled up and sweaty with each other; I'm just saying that if S/He were the disapproving type, I'm sure we have heard by now.

As it goes, there are probably other "sins" higher on the List of Things God is Anxious to See Humans Figure Out.

And like I said Whoopnacker, I'm addressing the above to the stereotype, not to you. You don't sound at all stupid enough to think that AIDS or a hurricane wiping out a whole bunch of desperately impoverished people, is God punishing anyone or anything.

Congregations based on restrictive, hostile and closed interpretations of religious documents - which are then read entirely outside of Historical Context - are becoming smaller and smaller, harder and more closed, and more and more numerous.

This is increasing the sense of isolation that fuels the initial closure of interpretation, and a chain reaction is causing more and more religious and ideological groups to reach critical mass. Where the components to that chain reaction are: intense moral outrage and a sense of injustice; and insatiable and suicidal zeal.

Frequently linked with Nationalist and Independence causes, such cliques are blowing up all over the place.

There is too much diversity in Humanity to try to apply any kind of Uniform Moral Code.

And even if there weren't, the only people who appreciate the idea of an Uniform Moral Code, are those whose own morals won't be affected by one. And those types of people don't do much to encourage sympathy...

And yet we waste all that Time and Energy in our churches, temples and mosques, arguing about which bunch of us God Likes Most.

Essentially, because we equate "Who God Likes Most" with meaning: Who God Is Least Likely To Throw In The Furnace. :)

Above all else, I Believe we need to stop Being Afraid of God.

Let's give Her, Him or It, the Benefit of the Doubt. He, She or It *IS* the Supreme Being after all, I'm sure if They need to find a way to steer us in the Right Direction, They'll find a way to do it.

Apart from anything else, Religion has been trying for the better part of 6,000 years to try and appease a supposedly vengeful God's ambiguous and open commands.

How're we doing on that? Any closer to Paradise yet?

No.

It strikes me that Humanity has made its Greatest and most Inspired leaps forward, whilst it has become less distracted by God's Problems, and focused more on Humanity's Problems.

That isn't ingratitude.

It's just that if God is relying on a bunch of primates who can't even stick their genitals in the right holes, to sort out *HIS* problems...

Then we might as well all just give up; and fuck our way into Oblivion.

Now.

I'll bet you are glad you never knocked on *MY* door, aren't you? :)

Peace