In Reply To #51

Now which of those voices sounds most like mine TED, and which most like yours?

Labelling one a "Scientist", was no more instructive than labelling the other a "Christian".

Any atheist could have played the "Scientist" role, and any Spiritual person could have played the "Christian" role.

What that dialogue is really about, is "Closed Mind" versus "Open Mind". It is about Absolute Conclusion, and Curious Inquiry.

And again TED: whose voice sounds most like whose?

*I* disagree with both the "Scientist" *AND* the "Christian".

*I* don't see Evil in the World; *I* see only the *ILLUSION* of "Evil" taking place.

Every religion and Spiritual Philosophy includes the premise of a post-mortem Existence for our Soul; though with widely differing stories about what is required to make it through to a *POSITIVE* post-mortem Experience.

Point being that this terminally-short Existence in material form, is insignificant in the overall scheme of Eternal Life. It is highly implausible that this one single shot at Life, is our One and Only Chance to Get It Right for Eternity.

But hey, who knows? It's good to keep an open mind about these things, isn't it?

There is no Evil in the World TED; there is just the ILLUSION of "Evil" taking place.

Since anybody "killed" by "Evil", doesn't actually die, but actually moves on to a Paradise of their own tastes; then how can "Evil" be said to be going about being Evil...

*I* don't see "Evil" in the World, therefore there is at least, ONE exception to the Rule, which has to leave open the possibility for many exceptions. What "Evil" one tends to see in the World, is usually determined by whose "Side" you are on.

*I* don't see anything in the World, but the Imagined Illusions of Individuals. Nothing is Real. We are just One Consciousness Dreaming Itself to be in Infinite Individuation.

"Evil" can no more damage me, than I can *actually* be run over by a tank driven by a griefer in BF2.

I'm *NOT* saying that is what *YOU* should Believe: *I* am saying that is what *I* Believe.

BECAUSE I believe that, it leaves no room in *MY* comprehension, for the concept of Evil.

It certainly makes no sense at all, that the Single Conscious Identity that is EVERYTHING - NOTHING EXCLUDED (not even any privatives or antonyms :)), would hurt Its Self.

Humans on the other hand, LOVE to hurt themselves: they do it ALL the Time.

Any "Evil" that is described as such by some Humans, is *NOT* the product or Creation of The Supreme Energy.

Any "Evil" that is experienced by Humans, is *CREATED BY HUMAN BEINGS*, not by God or Whatever.

Calling some aspect of human behaviour "Evil", is usually just an excuse to behave in a slightly-but-significantly less "Evil" way, because of the importance and necessity of eradicating "Evil". The idea that it is important and necessary to concentrate our energies on all aspects of human behaviour that disgust and repel us, comes from our interpretations of our religions and ideologies.

Calling something "Evil", is just a human excuse for behaving in an Evil way towards that thing.

See TED, I'm neither Scientist nor Christian. I have long said what was implied in the piece above: that Science and Spirituality are approaching the Same Thing, just from different directions.

I think that the "Scientist" and the "Christian" in the above piece were, paradoxically, both right, and both wrong.

The problem is, they focused on their differences - even the second "Christian" - rather than their similarities.

But at least the second Christian was keeping an open mind about things, eh? :)

Peace