In Reply To #16

In Reply To #10

But my point to TED was that Jesus' words have been so frequently translated, interpreted and edited, that it is difficult to know EXACTLY what it is he meant by those words.

I hear His words everyday.

And that's really cool for you TED, and I am genuinely happy for you. :)

But you don't hear those words through your ears - your aural receptors I mean - just as you don't really see those words with your eyes.

Rather, you FEEL those words coming to you from within. Jesus' physical form may no longer be extant in our World, but His message, His Life, His works, are kept alive by people like you, in you and of you.

Now the only point I'm making is that it is highly unlikely that those "words" you "hear" within you, are words of Fear and threats. It is more likely that they are words of Love, Peace, Clarity and Comfort. They are most likely "words" you find soothing, "words" that bring you comfort, "words" that bring you and assure for you, Love and Peace.

Such "words" are at odds with the "Word of God", as transmitted to us over the millennia, through the auspices of humans who had EVERYTHING to gain from people such as yourself looking to them for comfort and salvation; and everything to lose, if people like yourself ever chose to Go Your Own Way - find your OWN way to Jesus, or let Jesus find His own way to you.

Much of Religion sounds very much like an attempt to establish a hierarchical structure of behaviour and social order, with the Priests, Rabbis or Imams at the top of that structure, and everyone else below, relying on the clerics to instruct them on How To Live Their Lives.

Now if you choose to live your Life TED, looking forward to the Moment when you "Pass God's Test" (or fail it), then that's great for you, really. It gives your Life dimensions, and if it's working out for you, I don't think you should ever contemplate making a different choice, unless or until that outlook on Life starts to no longer work for you.

I *do* think you run the risk of blocking off certain experiential possibilities, because you are choosing to fixate on just a single interpretation of Existence and Life. I think the question you could ask your Self, if you feel so inclined, is how many alternative possibilities have you or did you consider before choosing to fix your Life around the Christian liturgy?

If the answer to that is "many", then that would seem to indicate that after much searching, you have found the choice that does and will continue to work best for you.

But if the answer to that question is either "not many", or "none at all", then you might feel inclined to ask yourself how you KNOW Christianity to be the best of all possible choices for you.

I am not for a moment doubting the Divinity of Jesus the Christ TED.

I am just suggesting that he may only be just ONE of the MANY Divines that have graced and continue to grace Humanity with their presence, throughout our History and our Present. :)

Peace

PS. Alaskan: you must KNOW you're heading down the wrong path, when you find your Self following SomeGuy, for Heaven's Sake. ;-)