Aww... This is just like the Good Old Days, isn't it EvilFitch?

One of the most insidious attributes of your sophistry is the way that your responses compel an engagement from otherwise reasonable and rational individuals, into your murky, intellectually dishonest and utterly dysfunctional pathology.

By now, I should know better than to set foot in the sticky mass of your mental effluvia. But just as the same morbid curiosity compels other sensible and sane individuals to repeatedly engage with your brother's frankly bonkers belief about the supremacy of the Biblical Narrative; so too do I and others tread carelessly and at our own peril into the equally contorted self-regard you have with your own views on matters political and social.

But there we go; and here we are.

The chief problem we have is that the personal enmity that you (and your cheerleader, Alaskan_Viking) have for me means that any and every "discussion" or "debate" you and I might have, is always - and more or less immediately - going to descend into your pointless and petty attempts to self-aggrandise. Attempts that are never based on a [i]de facto[/i] demonstration of your own abilities - e.g. a calm, reasoned and rational analysis of the legal complexities of an issue that is occupying the attention of the highest legal minds in your society - but which instead are always characterised by your shouted assertions of absolute righteousness, your screaming bouts of condescension, and your stunning displays of sophism.

Take this thread as a fine example. What exactly are we arguing about here?

A contentious legal issue that has repeatedly divided the opinions of the U.S. Supreme Court, and set the Executive Branch of your Federal Government against the Texas State Legislature?

Or is it about who out of the two of us has a greater understanding of your country's Constitution and legal framework as it applies to international treaties?

Let me tell you what *I* think our argument in this thread is about:

It is about the ambiguities of the Supremacy Clause in the U.S. Constitution; it is about the scope for legal interpretation of the relationship between International  Treaties that the U.S. is a signatory to and U.S. Federal Law; and it is about whether or not there is any basis or reason for the legal disagreement both within and without of the U.S. Supreme Court regarding the same.

Now I'm not arguing for or against a particular position: I am merely observing that clearly there is a *LOT* of room for argument and debate. And the evidence I use to support this observation is that the nine members of the Supreme Court cannot agree on it; and the White House's legal team also continue to disagree with the SCOTUS majority opinion.

You however, are arguing that there is no argument; that there is no room for debate; that it is all cut, dried and settled; that the Supremacy Clause in the Constitution is an irrelevancy; and that the Constitution and Federal Law are the sole components of the "Law of the Land".

And you support your argument by repeated postings of legal *OPINIONS* that support a majority ruling; and also by continuing to assert that your understanding of the U.S. Constitution and Legal System is superior to mine; and that in fact, you are considerably more intelligent than I am, better informed and better educated.

Now you probably have received a better education than I ever needed - God knows your parents have had to try all they can. As far as information goes, well, the Wonder of the Internet means that technically speaking, we are equally informed. But as for your being more intelligent than me...

:)

You're evidently not even intelligent enough to know what real Intelligence is.

When I look at my own reflection, I like what I see. Oh sure, it could be a little less pompous, it could certainly be leaner, more focused and more succinct. It could be a little more driven, a little more accomplished, maybe even a little more ambitious. But then, Time is on my side, so whilst there is room, there is no rush for improvement. I'm happy with who I am.

You, on the other hand, can barely stand to look at your own reflection. You see a malformed homunculus, physically, mentally and emotionally deficient, lacking any redeeming qualities, and doomed to a life of isolation and failure.

Now, do you want to know how I know this?

I'll tell you anyway.

It is because the way that we see others, is the way that we see ourselves. The way we behave towards others, is the way we feel about ourselves. And the way that others behave towards us: is the True Reflection of Who We Really Are.

I Love this World, and I Love the people I know in it. I enjoy other people's company, and other people enjoy my company. I respect others (they know this, because I tell them), and others respect me (I know this, because they tell me).

But you, "Evil" Fitch, you hate more or less everyone. You blame the World for dealing you a shit hand. You blame other people for failing to recognise your obvious superiority. You can't engage anyone with civility, positivity and respect. And the way you continually try and shit on everyone else betrays precisely the nature of your own internal dialogue.

That dialogue spills out of you too incessantly, too monotonously and too transparently for you to deny it - so don't even try bothering to.

But it doesn't have to be that way. You don't have to be the way you are.

Change the way that you see the World, change the way that you behave towards the World, and you will see the World, and your reflection in it, change too.

Trust me on this. I am more intelligent than you are.

[face_peace]