In Reply To #21

In Reply To #1

Let Others Be Their Selves Too.

This pretty much sums up my take on life too. People should be allowed to do what they want to do, so long as it doesn't hurt me and preferably anyone else!

One question though - where does the line get drawn on a practical basis? For example others might choose to smoke, but the recent ban on public smoking has taken away their right to be themselves in public places. That said, health-conscious people, asthmatics and people that just find a smokey atmosphere highly unpleasant, are now freer than they were before.

Now I don't wish it to get into that particular debate, but I'm sure you know what I'm getting at. Where does one draw the line?

Or is this a little too ground level for you? ;)

Never!  I always like to start at the ground level and work my way up with these things. :)

I think it is fairly straightforward.

If the "Two" Rules are:

1. Be Your Self

And

2. Let Others Be Their Selves

Then it is fairly clear that blowing poisonous and toxic smoke into someone's face, with every possibility that it will shorten their Life-span, contravenes "Rule" 2. How are you letting someone else be their Self, if you're slowly killing them?

And if you decide that Being Your Self means, Being Your Self smoking cigarettes (or whatever), then you have a duty to YOUR SELF, to continue smoking cigarettes (perhaps you don't believe all the health warnings, and want to see for your SELF, what the side-effects are).

I'm not sure that is really a quandary. I think it is just a question of ensuring that the people whose face you exhale cigarette smoke into, are people who are ALSO smokers, and who are ALSO blowing smoke back into your face. :)

Clearly, that was just one example you picked 'Slacks, and the above is just one possible answer. But I think the same kind of thought can be applied in any and every situation, where the act of being one's Self, impacts and hinders someone else's chance of being THEIR Self.

I suppose the broader idea is that IF you want other people to NOT do those things they do that prevent YOU from Being Your Self; then the best thing to do is try to make sure that what YOU do, doesn't prevent anyone else from Being Their Self.

That should take care of it. :)

In Reply To #22

In Reply To #21

Yeah but thats not all that hard for most people to grasp, you are who you are, not much anyone else can say or do to change that.

But the hard part for people to even realize is "can they maintain a sense of self, while not having their form inner peace shrugged off, in the midst of chaos?"

Heres some common examples:

1. 6:30pm on November 30(Black Friday?), at the mall, you rear end a lunatic shopper in the middle of the intersection, while the light is turning red, he gets out of the car in a rage, what to do?

2. A wifes incessant nagging(need I say more?)

I think the answer is that WHATEVER it is that you are going to have to do in those situations, whatever response is necessary or desirable, whatever reaction you are going to have: you will serve your Self better if you remain calm and unexcited throughout.

If the lunatic shopper you just rear-ended gets out of their car in a frightful rage, your responding by getting equally enraged or lunatic, is only going to inflame the situation.

If you can imagine being the lunatic shopper who gets enraged because someone just rear-ended you, then you can start to think about the kind of response you would look for from the person who just shunted you. If they are behaving aggressively and/or defensively, then that is only going to increase your ire. If they are instantly apologetic, calm and rational, then chances are, they will bring you up to the same level of calm rationality, where you can both just deal with what is, just an accident, nothing more.

I can't think of any situation, no matter how violent or threatening that situation may be or may become, where you are not BETTER served by remaining calm and rational.

Being placid doesn't mean being submissive, deferential or cowardly; it just means: Keeping your head, while all others around you are losing theirs and blaming it on you. :)

Peace