In Reply To #8

Why do we need Jesus to tell us anything.  Would you not be yourself if Jesus didn't tell you to be Holyman?

Oh, ah, hey, whoa there hoss...

*I*, am not a Christian.

I believe that Jesus of Nazareth was a very important person in the Evolution of Humanity, but no more or less important than Prince Siddhartha (The Buddha), Mohammed, Moses, Einstein, Gandhi or Bill Hicks.

They are all people, of a time, and of a place. Their particular words aren't meant for Everyone: their advice doesn't work for Everyone. If individuals find solace, comfort, clarity and Peace in the words of these People, that has to be a good thing. If individuals do not find anything of use in the words of these others, then no problem, they can look somewhere else, or, more ideally, make up some words of their own for which they CAN find some use.

Indeed, one of the issues I have with the Christian Religion, is that it seeks to freeze-dry words of advice that were intended, by the speaker of those words, to apply to people living in the Middle East, 2,000 years ago. That there IS much Truth in Jesus' words that is still relevant to people today, is a testament to the power of the Truth he spoke.

But my point to TED was that Jesus' words have been so frequently translated, interpreted and edited, that it is difficult to know EXACTLY what it is he meant by those words.

So, in all, I think other peoples' words can and should be used as a guide to understanding our own lives; but I think it is counter-productive to follow such words religiously, and in place of our own ideas.

In Reply To #9

In Reply To #7

Real-ising Peace within our Self, means realising that Peace within our Self, comes from WITHIN our Self. Once we have found our Inner Peace, no amount of disturbance from "Outside" of our Self, can disturb that Peace.

Very true, although hard to attain for the average Joe.

Oh, it's really not that difficult: the trick is to know what it is you are aiming at. :)

See, we're taught to think that the only way to find Peace within our Self, is to have Peace outside of our Self. If there is no Peace outside of our individual Life, there can be no Peace within it.

How can we find Peace in our Self, when Everyone around us is shouting and screaming, and in many cases, hitting out at one another?

But think about it for a moment.

If you lived in a World defined as Perfectly Peaceful, how would you know that the Peace you find within your Self, is YOUR Peace? It could be you just mimicking and imitating the Peace you find around you. You could just be pretending to "Be At Peace", to fit in with those around you.

But place your Self in a World that is NOT Perfectly Peaceful, a World in which there is actually quite a lot of conflict and confusion, and you've created the Perfect conditions within which to find your own, Inner Peace. You will certainly know it is YOUR Peace, when you find it within a World where Peace is so scarce.

This World of confusion and conflict is not here to THWART your search for Inner Peace; it is here to allow you to PROVE to your Self that you have FOUND your Inner Peace.

Paradoxically, and rather confusingly, I don't personally find tranquil Japanese gravel gardens at all Peaceful; I don't find Buddhist Temples or Christian Churches very comfortable places to be in for too long; and I really find it rather upsetting to be around too many people at too much Peace with their selves.

I get really rather uncomfortable, when I can't tell that the Peace I am Experiencing is mine, or that of the Environment and people around me.

Put myself in a War-zone though, put myself amongst people who are a loooooong, long way from finding their own Inner Peace, and, well, I just settle right down. :)

The Peace I find in myself, in such circumstances, is a Peace I know to be Wholly my own.

No it makes sense, to me at least.

Although I think you're assuming EVERYONE around us is ready and willing to attain the inner peace. I may be mistaken, but I think this voyage is a mid life thing, not necessarily a crisis, but really not something that children look forward to....at least not in my prime..

Well, the only assumption I think I'm making, is the assumption that Everyone wants to find a Peace of their own.

You know, these Islamic Extremists, it may not look or sound like it to us, but they ARE, as far as THEY are concerned, trying to achieve what it is THEY believe they need from the World, to achieve Inner Peace. Those squawking Christian Fundamentalists, doubling as the Morality Police, THEY are trying to change the World around them, in order to find the Peace they crave.

George W. Bush too.

There are very, very few people I've met who crave conflict and confusion in their lives. I've met a *LOT* of people whose ideas about what need to be done in order to achieve Peace, involve creating a lot of conflict, and even more confusion. But mostly, they're just people who think the way to stop feeling the pain they feel inside, is to hurt other people. It is no wonder then that they so often end up working AGAINST their own desire for Peace.

You know, when we are children, we don't CARE about the meaning of Peace, or what constitutes Peace. We don't care, because we HAVE the feeling of Peace. We don't care what any feeling is called, or how it is described or proven, because we HAVE those feelings.

But as we grow, we are taught what those feelings should and shouldn't feel like; we are taught what things we need from the outside World, and those around us, in order to achieve and hold on to those feelings. And, before we know it, we know what the feeling is called, and what it should look like, but we don't HAVE those feelings anymore.

We don't need words for the feelings that we have, BECAUSE we HAVE those feelings; we are too busy enjoying and Experiencing those feelings, to bother questioning why we have them, or whether we SHOULD have them or not.

Inner Peace is not an absence of Fear: Inner Peace is simply being comfortable living with our Fears, whatever those Fears may be. Inner Peace means embracing our Fears as helpful indicators to help us through our Lives.

We don't HAVE to be afraid of our Fears. If whatever causes our Fears is beyond our ability to control and negate, then we simply learn how to BE with those Fears, to accept them as a part of who we are, accept them as something that makes us tick, in a certain way.

hmmm, maybe thats why I'm so screwed up these days eh?

Disclaimer: I got a haircut for the first time in 8 years this morning, so I feel strangely different.

Ah, I think feeling strangely different sounds like a step in the right direction.

And think of the money you're going to save on shampoo! :)

Peace