In Reply To #37

In Reply To #32

It's not to say that redefining marriage won't affect anything.  Marriage has everything to do with society and how we view ourselves.

No, that isn't accurate.

Marriage between a man and woman has everything to do with CERTAIN Societies, particularly those defined by certain religions and/or certain moralities.

In certain societies, marriage is a commitment made by a man and a woman to each other, which is then "blessed by God", or legitimised by civil statute and recognition.

Outside of that "Divine Blessing", religious and/or civil ceremony, "marriage" is JUST a commitment made between two or more people who Love each other.

Those people who DO NOT CHOOSE to be a part of a society that ONLY recognises marriage between a man and a woman, if it is "Blessed by God", or civil statute, can happily choose to "marry" whomever and however they want.

If "marriage" is defined SOLELY as a union between just two people, under the auspices and regulations of a religion or governmental Law, and officially recognised by Church and/or State: then nobody who "marries" outside of those precepts, can in fact BE "married".

But if "marriage" simply means the joining together of two or more, uh, "things", then anybody who commits to anybody else for a "Life-Long" partnership, is married as soon as they and their partner(s) decide they are married.

Now will it lower the view of marriage, possibly.  It is simply that people dont want it around them.  Just as people dont want adult book stores and liquor stores around them either.  They dont buy the books or booze but they dont like what it contributes to.

Again, not accurate.

People don't buy certain books, because THEY don't want to read them. If they chose to buy those books, the contents of those books might change them in a way that they do not choose to be changed.

Same with alcohol: people who don't buy liquor, don't buy it because THEY don't want to drink it.

Why buy something for which you have no use?

Is that their problem and not someone who is gay, then so be it.

My point is: those who have a problem with gay marriage, CHOOSE to have a problem with gay marriage.

There is nothing forcing or compelling them to have a problem with gay marriage. It's not like secondary smoking, or being the victim of criminal assault, or even censorship.

It is THEY (YOU?) who CHOOSE to have a problem with gay marriage.

At any point in their lives, they could easily and instantly CHOOSE to NOT have a problem with gay marriage, and the only thing that would change in the World, is that THEY would become slightly less uptight, and slightly less disagreeable.

If "they" don't want to recognise "marriages" between anything other than a single man and a single woman; then they don't HAVE TO recognise those "marriages".

It's not a problem. It's certainly not a problem for those who get "married" outside of the (Judaeo-Christian) (and currently) conventional view of marriage. They are only interested in the one or more people they are getting "married" to, and perhaps their friends and family, recognising that they are married.

Then people are not ready for gay marriage to be accepted and what is making people mad is that people and politicians are trying to cram it down people's throats.

No.

What is making "SOME" people mad, is that OTHER people and politicians are taking steps to stop those "SOME" people, from continuing to be able to cram "THEIR" views on what can ONLY constitute marriage, down EVERYONE ELSE's throats.

Bottom Line on the whole gay marriage issue:

Is it a biological or moral issue?  That is all.

Neither.

It is an abstract issue, a conceptual issue at most.

It is solely about what ideas we have in our minds, about what marriage is and/or should be. And it is about how we feel about OTHER people having different ideas in THEIR minds, about what marriage is and COULD be.

The concept of marriage is in NO way threatened by homosexual marriages; if anything, the concept of marriage is SUPPORTED and ENHANCED by homosexuals (and whomever else) choosing to celebrate their unions (in whatever way).

The concept of marriage is more realistically threatened by high divorce rates, and heterosexual partners choosing not to get married in the first place.

I am in a stable relationship with my partner, and we have an 8-year old son together.

And yet, we are not married, and have no intention of ever getting married; at least not in a church or civil office. We might, one day, if we feel like it, choose to gather some friends together in a wooded glen somewhere, and express our undying Love for each other, with our friends and family as witnesses to that expression. But that'll be about the limit of it.

Actually, our friends and family ALREADY know of our undying Love for each other, because we express it to them, and of course each other, every day. If we held such a ceremony, it would be solely as an excuse for a party.

Now, who is the greatest threat to the "Institution of Marriage"?

People like Holywoman and I, who see the whole "Institution" as an irrelevancy? Or two loving partners, who happen to be of the same sex, wanting to express and share their Love THROUGH the Institution of Marriage - albeit a slightly updated version of that Institution?

Either way, there is NOTHING stopping YOU from continuing to CHOOSE to disapprove of, or look down on people who themselves, CHOOSE to "get married" in a form that you do not, will not, and perhaps can not recognise.

And equally, there is NOTHING stopping you from CHOOSING to just put the whole sordid business out of your mind, and just get back to concentrating on what Choices you want to make in your OWN Life.

Peace