[quote=MadCatOmni][quote=Holyman_2012]Oh, also: don't smoke marijuana whilst taking mushrooms. Doing so is more or less guaranteed to give you a bad trip. [/quote]

[image=http://i150.photobucket.com/albums/s108/MadCatOmni/Soldiers%20emoticons/confuse.gif] Huh?? Never have I tripped bad by doing that. Must by physiological.[/quote]

I think age and marijuana experience/tolerance might be a factor as well as your physiology and psychology.

TBH though Cat, you're a pretty level-headed guy, and your feet are firmly planted in Reality, so I wouldn't have you marked as the kind of person who'd have a bad trip on anything.

Bad trips are more often than not the result of strong Emotional Energies that are kept contained and suppressed by a lucid and sober mentality, suddenly finding themselves free to stampede across a Space Cadet's intoxicated consciousness.

Anyone who is suppressing a lot of anxiety and Fear in their lucid state, is going to have a struggle to cope if those are the Emotions released during a psychotropic experience.

Of course, the idea is to release those POSITIVE Emotions that are also kept in check by the lucid consciousness: Emotions like Joy, Fulfilment and Love.

The best way to prepare for a psychedlic Experience is to really try and tune in to your positive Emotions, before you trip. But just as important, is checking in with your negative feelings before you take-off as well.

Pre-flight preparations should include significant safety checks on the type and weight of Emotional baggage one will be, uh, "Taking Through Customs". ;)

Flight conditions are also, obviously, very important. Ensuring that you are in a safe and relaxed environment is a must. So too is making sure you've picked the right Flight Crew too... Nothing worse than a panicky passenger spoiling everyone else's Journey.

Tripping while under the influence of any other drug is always, at the least, going to inhibit your mental agility. At the least that can mean that you aren't able to fully appreciate and enjoy a positive experience; but in a lot of cases, it means that the tripper's psychology is retarded and ill-equipped to deal with some Emotional revelations.

Smoking a joint or fifteen is [b]definitely[/b] the way to lower the landing gear and touch-down from a trip; and perfect for dealing with the, uh, "Jet-lag". But I'd advise anyone who isn't a very seasoned dope-smoker to take mushrooms purely, and not mix them with anything else - especially alcohol.

When you take mushrooms, or any other kind of natural, unprocessed psychedelic with a Shaman, Medicine-Man or any other kind of tribal Holyperson, the act is carried out with much ceremony. One of the things that is definitely beneficial, and really increases the chances of a positive experience, is to try and purge yourself before you take the mushrooms. That means eating nothing for a good 4-6 hours before you take the mushrooms, and only very simple and easily digested plain foods for 24 hours before that.

An hour or so before you trip, make sure you have good dump. At many tribal ceremonies, they will give you herbal laxatives and emetics to really clean out your system! You shouldn't need to do that if you've had just plain food in the run-up to, and fasted before you trip.

Keeping hydrated throughout the trip is important, and water is the thing for that. Fruit juices have all sorts of unpleasant additives that can upset your trip just as easily as alcohol; and vitamin C will actively work against your trip and bring you down (which is why it's handy to keep around as a sedative for bad-trippers).

(Sorry guys, REALLY didn't mean this to turn into "Holyman's Guide to 'Shrooming"... ;))

Having prepared yourself personally for a safe, enjoyable and Enlightening trip, look to your Environment.

The ideal environment, is a log cabin with a porch, overlooking a wooded, mountain-valley.

With a waterfall somewhere in the picture, probably.

But if you find yourself short on log cabins, try to find somewhere on any border between indoors and outdoors, with as natural a vista as you can get...

And finally, make sure you've got the right Flight Crew.

Three is a pretty safe minimum, particularly if one of the three is willing to be Designated Driver, and not trip (just get drunk and stoned as usual... :)). That last is always an ideal btw: one non-tripper in every group. It helps if they've got a sense of humour... ;)

Try to find people you know who are all on the same mental and Emotional wavelength as you, people you feel safe and relaxed with. That usually means only those people you know you can hang out with, without having to consume alcohol or drugs.

Get yourselves relaxed, comfortable and warm, with a bottle of water to hand, and take your mushrooms etc.

Whilst you are taxiing for Take Off, talk amongst yourselves about the positive things in your Life; talk about each other: talk positively about each other.

And enjoy the Trip.

It's the Only Way to Fly. :)

Peace