In Reply To #79

In your opinion what is the aim of the game called life? Surely its not being the highest fragger?

Jesus has told us the aim of the game Holyman but you refuse to believe it.

Well, you know TED, it's quite appropriate that you talk about "the AIM of the Game called Life", and I'll tell you why that is.

The problem with Jesus TED - and I mean the MAIN problem that Jesus has - is that he has been dead for 2,000 years.

And if it is difficult to help people See the Light while one is alive, it is all but impossible to do it after one has died.

The problem is that after your Life has ended, all that is left, are your words, and other peoples' words about your deeds.

So when living people say, "I think what Jesus meant to say...", and they don't quite manage to capture the essence of what Jesus, in fact, *DID* mean to say; it is very difficult for Jesus to correct any errors in those interpretations.

At least, not without freaking Everyone out, when a 2,000 year old Palestinian suddenly parts the clouds and shouts "Oi! Fundies! No!!!"

So whilst your FEELINGS about what Jesus is about, are as current and outside of Time as only Love can be; your THOUGHTS about what Jesus is, or rather was about, come from... Well... Many different Historical and Theosophical sources.

What DID Jesus tell us was the aim of the Game TED?

Did he, like so many Old Testament prophets before him, tell us that the Aim of the Game was to supplicate ourselves before and beg the mercy of a vengeful and capricious Deity? Did Jesus tell us that the only way to Heaven, was to appease a jealous and frustrated God, who was eternally pissed off at Humans, because one of us once ate a piece of fruit he didn't ought to have?

Did Jesus tell us that the only way to avoid an Eternity of Hell and torment, is to spend our lives doing whatever it takes to make sure that God doesn't stay pissed off with us?

Or

Did Jesus tell us to live our lives in Love and Peace? Did he tell us to Love our neighbours, Love our Enemies, even Love our governments and Caesars?

Did Jesus tell us to relax and just enjoy ourselves, like the lilies in the fields? Did Jesus ask us to look within for God? Did Jesus tell us that all the things he did, we would do and more?

Possibly.

It's difficult to tell, isn't it?

Whatever Jesus may or may not have said, in his native Aramaic, has come to us through many processes of translation, interpretation and abridgement. And unfortunately, the man isn't around to correct anything that may have been lost in those many translations.

Was Jesus obsessed with Humanity's sins? Did Jesus sacrifice his Self, for our "Sins", knowing full well that we would go on sinning?

What is sin? What does the word "sin" mean?

Well, the English word "sin" is used to translate the Greek word "hamartia"; which in turn is used to translate the Aramaic word "khata" and the Hebrew word "khate".

They all share one meaning (though other, different meanings are attached to each word), and that is:

To miss the mark.

There is some dispute over whether the Greek word "hamartia" was still used as an archery term at the time of Jesus' life; but there is no dispute that "missing the mark" was at one point, the literal meaning of the Greek archery term, "hamartia".

But if Jesus meant the term "khata" to mean "a violation and rejection of God's Will that will and must incur His wrath", why choose such an innocuous phrase?

So TED, you might say that I refuse to believe what Jesus has told us is the "Aim of the Game", but that isn't correct.

I believe that what Jesus told us was, to be cool with one another, and live our Life in Love and Peace, with ourselves, and with each other.

That is *EXACTLY* what I believe.

However, it appears that maybe you have a different belief about what Jesus told "us" (actually, 0th Century Judean Jews) was the "Aim of the Game". I don't know exactly what that different belief may be, because you haven't explicitly told me. That you say I "refuse to believe" what Jesus said was the Aim of Life, does suggest that you have different beliefs to those I expressed though.

But that's cool. Indeed, that's kind of The Point of different and apparently separate conscious identities: so that we can all describe what we see from our individual perspectives; and then put all those descriptions together, to see if we can discern The Big Picture.

It is not *I* that refuses "To Believe": *I* will Believe Everything and Anything. It is, I fear in this case, YOU that refuses to Believe anything other than that which you have already fixed your aim upon.

So what *DO* I believe is the Aim of this Game called Life?

Well, that's Easy.

The Aim of this Game called Life, is the same as the only Rule for this Game called Life:

To Be Your Self.

That's it. Nothing else. No other requirements, no prohibitions, no crimes or "Sins" are possible.

Just: Be Your Self.

Explore Your Self; Experience Your Self; Know Your Self; Understand Your Self.

In an infinite Eternity of Possibility, you can, should and WILL Experience Your Self in every way imaginable, through successive and accumulative Life Experiences.

If it helps, and if you need some kind of guidance to help you get to grips with Life, there is one other, uh, "Rule" you could consider, and that is simply:

Let Others Be Their Selves Too.

That's it.

Mind you, we ARE all One Consciousness, Experiencing Itself Subjectively through the Illusion of Separation. So in fact, those "Two" rules, are One and the Same.

You won't be able to Be Your Self, if you are not allowing or not approving of others Being Their Selves too. And you won't really be able to let others Be Their Selves, if you are not also Being Your Self.

"To thy own Self be True; for then, as sure as the night follows the day, thou canst not then be false to any man."

"Do unto others, as you would have done unto your Self."

"If someone asks you to go a mile with them, go with them twain."

"Love thy neighbour as thy Self."

Et cetera, et cetera.

You have Free Will, to choose to Be whomever you wish to Be.

If a Religion promises you punishment, if you do not do as you are told to do, and you believe that promise: then you are surrendering your Free Will.

You can not Truly exercise your Free Will, if one choice leads to punishment, and another to salvation.

Your body is not exercising Free Will, when it "chooses" to eat, rather than starve. Your mind is not exercising Free Will, when it "chooses" to do something that results in reward, when the alternative "choice" would result in pain or punishment.

The Aim of the Game, is to celebrate your Individuality; to Experience that which only "You" can Experience.

You do not celebrate your Individuality when you subordinate your Will to the ambiguous threats of an ambivalent Deity; especially when those "threats" are communicated to you by a bunch of humans organising themselves into a "Religion", or even a Holyman who claims to know "Right" from "Wrong".

You celebrate your Individuality by doing those things that resonate most strongly and most positively with your feelings, your Emotions, your SOUL.

A uniform and homogenised Society of cowering and confused humans does not, a Paradise make.

A Collective of Individuals, coming together to celebrate and express the Love, Peace and Clarity they feel within their selves, *ABOUT* their Self, with each other, IS:

The Way, the Truth, and the Life. :)

Love and Peace