Yeah, I dunno, if it is something in the water, I wouldn't mind a jug or two of whatever the shirt-lifters are drinking.

Many of the most inspired minds in Human History have been famous left-footers.

Socrates of course, the greatest of all Greek philosophers, was, like all Greek philosophers, well up for man-on-boy action. He would have been considered very peculiar if he hadn't been.

Leonardo da Vinci was a screaming nancy, so was Michelangelo. Isaac Newton was a famous whoopsy, as was Jeremy Bentham after him.

Alexander the Great, he was one too.

And you might have had the balls to tell Ronnie Kray he was effeminate, but you probably wouldn't have had them for much longer afterwards.

No, it's much easier to answer the question: why do some people grow up to be homo[i]phobic[/i]?

And the answer is simple: Religion.

If you think about it, it's totally irrational to be scared by or even concerned about another fellow's homosexuality. At a fundamental biological level, the more of your competitors there are chasing each other, the less there are chasing mates you can actually breed with. Which is great news for us red-blooded males.

Even from a social perspective, who cares? We're not talking about non-consensual sex here: rape, fundamentally, is not a sexual crime, it is a crime of violence and psychological domination. So long as kids are not involved or exposed to adult sexuality in a traumatic way - which basically means consenting adults really need to not have sex in public - who cares? There's no evident danger to Society.

No, it's fucking plain old irrational religiosity that fuels homophobia.

Before the Church came along, sex of any (consenting) description was seen as healthy (and somewhat mundane) an activity as taking a dump. But the Church, particularly the Roman Catholic Church, needed to present itself as a clear alternative and break from the Bacchanalian characteristics of the Roman Empire. So they came out hard against "Sins of the Flesh".

The historical basis of the Doctrine of the Church of Rome was that whilst life was pretty miserable here on Earth, a Heavenly Paradise awaited the virtuous in the After Life. And anything that made mortal life more bearable - sex, drugs, rock and roll - was sinful.

Conversely, anything that made Life on Earth [i]harder[/i], was seen as being [i]more[/i] virtuous and pious.

So whilst wanking was considered sinful, flailing the skin off your own back with a scourge was considered to be an act of great piety. Easing your way through the day with a spot of recreational sex is very bad; but wearing a lice-infested hair-shirt, and walking barefoot 100 miles to Canterbury was seen as a sign of saintliness.

Fucked up or what?

Now if the Catholic Church could have banned heterosexuality as well, they would have. It wasn't the nature of the sex or the participants in it that was sinful; it was the doing something pleasurable in and with someone's life that was considered shameful.

But of course, the Catholic Church couldn't ban heterosexuality, or they'd end up like the [link=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shakers]Shakers[/link], with a global congregation these days, of about 3 people.

But the Church could easily identify fudge-packers as mortal sinners, without fear of their congregations dwindling.

And so, particularly in the puritanical Protestant Church of the 17th Century, homosexuality was very literally demonised.

And it is a legacy that reaches down to the modern era, particularly in nations that were founded by very uptight puritanical Protestants.

People can't mount a rational objection to homosexuality; but they can be made to feel very frightened of it.

And many people have been made, just that way.

[face_peace]