It is impossible to quantify the views of a diverse range of cultures and lifestyles into anything generalised, without invalidating the assessment through over-simplification.

However, one definition that is widely accepted as a significant feature of American Culture, is called "American Exceptionalism".

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Exceptionalism

It's ubiquity in American Culture is exhibited, by the inability of most Americans to comprehend how Foreign Nationals could view their own Nation any differently.

It is simply incomprehensible to most Americans that most non-Americans do not identify their selves so closely with their National Identity.

The Idea of American Exceptionalism feeds the vanity of many Americans, even those who do not agree with all the methods America used to achieve its Exceptional Status, or uses to maintain it.

Most Americans believe that America's Exceptional Status bestows Exceptional Status on themselves individually.

Anthropologically and sociologically, this is no different a Social Characteristic than that exhibited by the leading social and ethnic classes in all previous Nationalist Empires.

The British refined British Exceptionalism to a high art-form, during their tenure as "World's Number One". As did the French, Spanish and Turks.

The Romans and Greeks, of course, took it to its literal conclusion: and worshipped their own Roman and Greek Exceptionalism as Divinity.

And Americans aren't far off from that extreme: God Bless America and all that...

And as a result of social and cultural conditioning imposed from birth - Pledge of Allegiance etc. - most Americans believe American Exceptionalism to be a Fact of Life.

As respectively did the British, French, Romans, Egyptians etc...

It is the collective and wilful self-delusion of American Exceptionalism, which gives the American Citizenry a reputation for being both arrogant AND ignorant.

No mean feat...

Yet because Americans practice their Arrogance and Ignorance in their Foreign Policies, it is assumed to reflect the Will of the Citizenry.

In practice though, the Will of the Citizenry has been co-opted to reflect Foreign Policy.

Individual American Citizens are compelled to behave in an arrogant and ignorant way towards Foreigners, because they have had Belief in American Exceptionalism drilled into them since birth.

Since they MUST support American Foreign Policy, no matter how arrogant or ignorant it may be; they must change their own views on Foreigners to something arrogant and ignorant, in order to rationalise their support for arrogant and ignorant American Foreign Policies.

And that's how and why *SOME Americans, see the World the way they do.

Peace

* - A dwindling number