How Do You Defeat War, Without Going to War?

Conflict is a State of Being.

To be in conflict with others, with situations and circumstance, or within one's self, is to be in a disharmonious and unsettled condition. It is very difficult to get anything done when one is conflicted; it is next to impossible to achieve anything positive, when one is afflicted by conflict.

Conflict is the antonym of Harmony; just as War is the antonym of Peace.

Like most antonyms, conflict is a description of what is missing, not what is present. The word "dark" does not describe the presence of anything (at least outside the discipline of Cosmology!): it describes the absence of Light. Yet many of us have at one time or another in our lives, been afraid of the dark. That is: afraid of something that has no substance; a mere condition of absence.

We fear being in a state of personal conflict as much as we fear being collectively in a state of War. We have given labels to these States of Being, and in doing so, we have given substance to the insubstantial.

To be in a state of conflict with another is to introduce a phantom "Third Party" into the relationship; to create an artificial, insubstantial, yet usually insurmountable barrier between Self and Other. As we identify and define the state of conflict that exists between ourselves and others, we quickly (and often deliberately) forget our own role in generating and nurturing this phantom "child" that is born of a relationship lacking Harmony.

The conflict that exists between our self and the other obscures our vision: we can see the conflict, but we cannot see the other. The conflict takes on monstrous proportions, which further diminishes our ability to communicate. Pretty soon, we are trying to address The Conflict, rather than the other person. The worse the Conflict gets, the more we disown our own involvement and contribution to it. The more we disown our own responsibility for the Conflict, the more monstrous and terrifying it grows...

...Until, in personal affairs, we are forced to use the Nuclear Option: Total Disconnection. Divorce, resignation, ostracism, disownment, disinheritance, dismissal, emigration... Even murder.

The Conflict grows so great, becomes so irreconcilable, so impervious to rational or emotional sense, that we permanently sever all ties with those with whom we co-created the Conflict.

Yet, the conflict was never there. It never existed. It was a figment of our imagination. It was something that all involved gave birth to, when they named it... When they thought they had recognised it.

But where conflict arises, subsumes and destroys our relationship, our recognition has failed us: literally.

Conflict arises where we refuse - for whatever reasons - to allow ourselves to give equal merit to another's point of view; to walk - as our parents advised us - a mile in that other person's shoes.

To know again - or "recognise" - what it is that they know.

Our failure or refusal to see situations from the other's perspective, to sympathise and empathise with them, is the enemy of Harmony. To be able to understand their thoughts, their feelings, their priorities, their concerns, their hopes, is to share their perspective. And sharing their perspective is the least we can do, if we desire them to share our own perspective.

Sharing perspectives does not mean adopting or emulating another's perspective. It is not about replicating perspectives, but synchronising and harmonising differences. Where there are no differences, there can be no Harmony. To share another's perspective is to understand their point of view; there is no requirement to completely agree with them. Where perspectives and priorities clash or are mutually exclusive, arbitration and reconciliation can only take place where there is mutual respect for each other's positions.

Refusal to countenance another's position, perhaps because of moral, material or philosophical objections, is to surrender a relationship or situation to irreconcilable conflict. Morality is a question of perspective; materiality a question of need; and philosophy a matter for discussion. All are dynamics that can be reconciled and resolved within a harmonious relationship.

To resign a situation or relationship to conflict, is to surrender to a difficult challenge. It is lazy, it is cowardly, and most of all, it is self-defeating: nobody wins. The best outcome either party can hope for, is a no-score draw.

Because we can never force anyone to accept and adopt our perspective.

We might, with a sufficient expenditure of effort, coerce someone into obeying our will. We may be able to force them into doing what we tell them to do, on pain of pain. But such coercion is at best a stop-gap measure. Sooner or later, our failure to persuade the other to understand and appreciate our perspective, our impatience at their refusal to accept the moral, material and philosophical superiority of our position, will lead to revulsion and rejection. And the conflict we thought we had triumphed over, will return in a stronger and more indomitable form.

It is only through a willingness to meet someone where they are, with recognition and respect for their perspective, their priorities and their rationale, that we can give ourselves a chance to win them over. Only by first acknowledging and accepting their reasons and justifications for believing what they believe, do we earn the right - and gain the opportunity - to ask them to try and acknowledge and accept what we believe.

And why wouldn't we welcome the opportunity to learn about ourselves from another's perspective? Are we so lacking in humility that we believe that there is nothing that we can learn about ourselves, from and through someone else? The opportunity to see ourselves from others' perspectives must surely be of enormous benefit. What if they can see something about us that we have missed? What can we learn about ourselves - what are we willing to learn about ourselves - from other people?

Or is it that we believe that nobody can tell us anything about ourselves that we haven't already considered? Is it that whenever we hear something about ourselves that is less than wholly positive or complimentary, we take it as unfair and unfounded criticism, and immediately raise our personal defences?

And if so... Why do we imagine anyone else would react differently - be any less defensive - when we are criticising them?

War is collectivised conflict.

War occurs when one group of people experiences a lack of harmony with another group of people.

The rules and dynamics of War are no different to those of inter-personal conflict and disharmony: it is just taking place on a bigger scale.

Relationships between two groups, tribes, nations, religions, alliances, whatever..., break down. Harmony is lost. Conflict is identified within the void. And conflict is pursued. Conflict is fed. Conflict takes on a life of its own.

And always, a further conflict takes place within each of the warring parties: between those who feel that War is the solution to the conflict; and those who feel that War is exacerbating, exaggerating and prolonging the conflict.

Perhaps this is no different to our experience of personal conflict. Even as we argue and fight with our lovers, our colleagues, our bosses, our workers, our fellow nationals and our politicians, there is a voice within us that is pleading for us to stop arguing and fighting: to stop behaving so defensively and offensively.

Is it possible then, that those of us who wish to see an end to conflict between our societies - an end to War - are taking a conflicted and conflicting approach to achieving our aims?

In our outright rejection of War and our revulsion at all the horrors and tragedies that War creates, are we putting ourselves in conflict with those in our own Societies who cannot see any alternative response to conflict, other than triumph through military means?

There are many people within our own societies who hold on to such a perspective. How might those of us who do not share that perspective go about persuading them to see things differently?

Is "Direct Action" against them purposeful or productive? How and where has conflict been demonstrably reduced by activist groups putting themselves in conflict with the Military Establishment and its political enablers? Participating in "Direct Action" may allow an individual activist group to perceive itself as a credible force for positive change; but the Military and Political Establishment always seems to be able to use such domestic dissent and conflict to delegitimise the Anti-War Movement.

Creating conflict in order to reduce conflict is surely as discreditable a notion as Peace through Superior Firepower?

What about educating to believe differently - or re-educating - those in Society who think that Military Conflict and Warfare is an unavoidable and necessary component of Nationalised Human Societies?

Well, whilst all sincere and genuine attempts to educate and enlighten are meritorious, such an approach does appear to address a symptom rather than the cause of militaristic fervour within Society. And again, there is always the risk that a full-frontal assault on the militaristic and patriotic triumphalism that is both textual and sub-textual in our children's education, will meet with fierce opposition. Those whose perspectives on the efficacy of War are more...traditional...may view such efforts as subversive, possibly even seditious. A conflict would arise over and within our children's classrooms; and surely the long-term goal is to encourage our children to seek conflict-free approaches to the resolution of disputes.

When conflicts arise in our personal relationships, we see the same matrix dynamic that is evident in collective conflicts: there is a part of us that wants to fight the conflict to the bitter end, even if that means using a "nuclear option"; and there is a part of us that wants to find a harmonious resolution to the dispute.

Our approach to non-nuclear dispute resolution in our personal relationships is two-fold:

The easy part is reaching out to the aspect of the other that mirrors our desire for Peace and Harmony. However, that can only be done once we have dealt with the more difficult task: quelling and pacifying that part of our Self that wants to fight.

How do you persuade that part of your Self that is attuned and accustomed to conflict, to cease fire, so that the more pacific and harmonious side of your Self can reach out to its counter-part in the other person?

Well, the only universally applicable answer to that question is: Practice.

Collectively, we will only transcend War and organised violence by persuading the elements within our own societies that Militarism is ineffective and counter-productive. There are elements within every other society on our Planet with whom we are, have been or may ever be in conflict with, that share this understanding. We can and will reach out to and meet these elements in time, but only when we have persuaded those within our own society who promote and promulgate War, that their favoured means are not achieving their desired aims.

This will also take Practice.

If we seek Peace with societies outside our own, we must first find Peace within our own Society. Those in our own societies who believe that conflict is an effective means for resolving disputes, will not be persuaded differently, if we use methods that generate conflict.

Going to War against those in our own Society who favour War, will not deliver us from War.

Altering the perspective of those in our own societies who see War as the only option, requires that we fully and thoroughly understand and respect their perspective. We cannot ask them to alter their perspectives to match our own, if they perceive us as disrespecting their sensibilities. If we want them to relate to us, we must be able to relate to them. We must earn the right to ask them to reconsider their point of view.

It is all too easy for those of us who wish to see an end to War, to see those who favour the waging of War as the Enemy Within. An enemy over which victory must be achieved. But we will never achieve Peace within our own societies, much less between our societies, if we continue to see others - any other - as The Enemy.

It is easy to preach to the choir. It is easy and reassuring to reinforce our own perspectives by engaging only with those who already share our perspective. Of course we can and should reach out to those who are already leaning towards our perspective, and help them gain a better understanding of their own convictions. But if we are to really transcend and outgrow our societies' habitual attachment to violent conflict as a means of resolving differences, then our most concerted efforts must be directed towards those who remain - or at least appear to remain -  resolutely unconvinced about alternative approaches.

People whose lives are defined by their personal and professional participation in conflict are much better equipped to prevail in any conflict situation, than those who are disposed to avoiding conflict and promoting Harmony. Since these are the people who are the progenitors of conflict, it is absolutely necessary to avoid getting into conflict with them. Not because conflict is immoral, or because we may be accused of hypocrisy: but simply because they are more comfortable and more practiced in conflict situations than we are.

Getting into conflict with those who relish conflict will not rid the Human World of the conflict that both blights and threatens our survival. Such people are ready for conflict at all times.

Meeting them with understanding, compassion and an absence of moral judgement is the only way to disarm them.

Why do they believe what they believe? What is it that caused them to adopt the perspective they have? What would it take for them to see things differently? To alter, adjust, reduce and perhaps eventually reject their attachment to conflict?

What can we learn from them that might help and encourage them to learn from us?

The empty void that we call Conflict can only be filled by Harmony. If we seek Harmony, we must use harmonious methods to find it.

And Love.