[quote="Slacks"][color=#00BF00]So it sounds like natural evolution (of sorts) is about to be overtaken by man-made evolution; a prospect which is simultaneously very exciting, but also pretty terrifying in how it could one day potential affect how we organise our societies. The "haves" and "have-nots" could take on a whole new meaning.[/color][/quote]

Not sure you can call that "Natural Evolution", of any sort, because you're talking about synthetic advances in facility for a single species.

Natural Evolution more accurately applies to developments in survival rates and procreation across the whole range of Life. I.e. one species may gain an advantage over another species that leads to the advancement of one at the expense of another.

So maybe when [i]Homo sapiens[/i] outclassed [i]Homo neanderthalensis[/i] was the last time that could truly be said to have occurred for our race.

There are really three strings when you look at the Evolution of Humanity: the Biological; the Anthropological; and the Cultural.

With the Biological, we're no longer seeing much Evolution in individuals because we're only able to look at things as tiny (and probably insignificant) fractions of normal Evolutionary Timescales.

That's two billion years for Life to evolve after the formation of the Planet; another billion and a half for anything starting to resemble complex plant Life; couple of hundred million more years before Life really starts to think about getting off its arse and moving around...

So on and so forth.

Anthropologically, we're talking about the development of Society: cities, economies, mutually assisted living, that sort of thing. Things happen much more rapidly here. Absent any acceptable evidence of an Antediluvian Civilisation, everything Humanity has achieved anthropologically, has been managed in the last 6,000 years or so.

And Culturally, we're talking about Human Expression: how Humanity expresses its ideas about itself. And what we see here is the dynamic between, let's call them Kainotophobes and Kainotophiles: those who fear change; and those who love change.

Resistance to Change is a human cultural expression, and we see that a lot, particularly in Western (Abrahamic: Judaism/Christian/Islamic) Religion. Likewise, so too is a relentless desire *FOR* Change a human cultural expression, particularly amongst the "Next Generation".

So by now, we're not talking about the evolution of individuals, but the evolution of human populations. And what we're really starting to see is an exponential rate of development as the pace of those changes accelerates.

Clever apes that we are, we have long recognised that Technological Advantage equals Competitive Advantage, especially with regards to weapons technology. Consequently, technological advances always races far ahead of Humanity's capacity to adjust to those advances. See for example how World War One European generals fought battles with 20th Century technology, but using 18th or 19th Century tactics and strategies.

Which didn't work out all that well for a lot of human beings...

Pretty much the same thing happened when the Truman Administration of the United States got its hands on the Atomic Bomb. It had unilateral control of this awesome technology, but utterly lacked the cultural maturity to use it in a way that wasn't wholly counter-productive.

However, in the Age of the Internet, Humanity is really beginning to transcend anachronistic concepts like Nationalism and Capitalism. Of course the Kainotophobes will argue against this, but that is why we find them such curious and instructive anthropological specimens: because they epitomise the reasons why Humanity *SHOULD* Change.

It isn't that concepts like Nationalism and Capitalism are "Bad" or "Wrong" - viewing the World through a prism of morality is also an outmoded concept - just that they are evidently no longer useful to us. Like training wheels on the bikes we had as young children: they were necessary to help us get past a certain point of competence; but now they are just slowing us down.

We have outgrown them.

And beyond Evolution, it is vital to our *SURVIVAL* that we develop our Human cultures, consciousness and values to a degree that is safely compatible with our technological ingenuity.

Otherwise, Mother Nature really will step in and take charge.

:>_