Couple of points then:

I think Tgrant is on the money where he suggests that beyond a certain threshold of personal wealth, "Left" and "Right" politics probably have as much relevance to an individual as which lackey you employ is going to be emptying your trash bins on any given day.

Strictly speaking, if you are a sincere "Lefty", then you support the ideas of Wealth Redistribution and Progressive Taxation. So to be an Ultra-rich Socialist is basically to be an oxymoron. But like I said: when you're that rich, you can probably employ people to hold both Left- and Right-Wing views on your behalf - which certainly seems to be the case when it comes to political donations...

The other point, concerns the relationship of Socialism and Communism to Capitalism.

The difference between those three terms is simply a matter of ownership. The underlying System is still the same.

Capitalism dictates that trade, industry and the means of production should be controlled by private owners, with profits going to those private owners. Communism stipulates that these elements should be under common ownership, with "profits" continually recycled so that there never is, strictly speaking, any profit extracted from the Economy. And Socialism is a watered down version of Communism - in Marxist Theory, a developmental stage of Communism.

Critically though, Capitalism, Communism and Socialism are all defined and characterised by the same underlying foundational System. And that is a System based on use of resources, the means of production, the adequate fulfilment of vital necessity, and the stimulation of consumption.

Ownership of raw materials, the means of production, the responsibility to ensure the fulfilment of necessity, and the facility and ability to stimulate demand are the only distinctions between Capitalism, Communism and Socialism (or Communism-lite).

Now if we - the non-ultra-rich - can *ALSO* look past the incidental issue of ownership, and transcend our sophomoric obsession with arguments about who owns (or should own) what, we can consider the underlying precepts on which all of these competing schools of "Economic Philosophy" (which is far too grand a name to describe the actions of children squabbling over what belongs to whom...).

The Friday Essay then!

To save constant qualification, I'll just use the term "Capitalism" to describe the current Human Economic System as a Whole. As I've detailed above, Communists and Socialists just have different views on who should own and profit from Human Economic activity: they don't have much to say about altering the systemic foundations of Human Economics.

A dictionary definition of (economic) "capital" is:

[quote]Wealth in the form of money or other assets owned by a person or organization or available for a purpose such as starting a company or investing.[/quote]

As an aspect of Human Civilisation, Capitalism isn't all that old, relatively speaking. The first form of Capitalism - "Merchant (or Mercantile) Capitalism" - only really begins to emerge as a Civilisational/Social force around a 1,000 years ago.

Prior to its development (primarily within the Islamic Caliphates of the Middle East and South-Western Europe around 800 C.E.), the concept of "ownership" and "wealth" was entirely based on how well an individual or Society could protect and expand the geographical territory on which people lived and farmed. There was no underlying philosophical foundation for an abstract or conceptual Economic System; it was simply a matter of having a superior ability to effectively organise violence.

As a military/feudal leader (or member of a military/feudal elite), you controlled the territory upon which the majority of your population lived and subsisted. When you required bodies to be thrown at your opponents' armies, you simply ordered the men who lived on "your" land to fight for you. Your "Elite" social status rested entirely on your ability to forcibly eject or destroy the human beings living on territory you claimed (or wanted to claim) as your own. Plain and simple.

In the background of all this Feudal activity, there was a minor (and largely insignificant) strata of merchants, whose activity was based on buying goods in one place, moving those goods to another place, and selling them for more than it cost to purchase and (safely) transport them. That's all Mercantile Capitalism was about.

Of course, every now and then a Feudal Society would need to pay a King's Ransom to, uh, ransom a King; and that often meant borrowing gold and precious stones from whatever source was available. But once you had received that gold you decided you didn't really feel like paying it back, you simply executed or expelled the Jews or Holy Order of Knights whom you had borrowed from.

But then the 14th Century happened. And as far as Human Civilisation goes, the 14th Century was mostly about plagues - "The Black Death" and such-like - and famines.

The Black Death (1348 - 1350 C.E.)  killed about half of the human beings living in Europe. Beginning in China and travelling along the Silk Road, it is estimated to have reduced the Global Human population from around 450 million to 350 million. And what this meant was that suddenly, there were far fewer peasants available to fight for their Feudal Overlords, and to work the lands "owned" by the Feudal Aristocracy. And this shortage of labour meant that the power and authority of the Landed Gentry was reduced, at the same time as the power and influence of those peasants and serfs still alive began to increase.

In effect, this was the point at which the Middle Class was created.

Former serfs and peasants could now offer their labour to other land "owners", in exchange for... Wages! That is: financial remuneration above and beyond simply being allowed to live on a particular bit of land, and to keep back a little of whatever was farmed. If one Feudal Lord didn't offer a sufficiently acceptable remuneration package, then the serf (or by now: tenant-farmer) could take his services elsewhere.

It was during this period of increased Working- and Middle-Class migratory activity, that "The Common People" started to have the idea that maybe they could all club together and sent up their own, community-shared "Manors", in the form of "Towns".

Of course, the facilities for and abilities with the projection of organised violence still rested with the Feudal Aristocracy; so absent the occasional attempt at a Peasants' Revolution, an equilibrium quickly established itself between the established Upper-Class, and the nascent Middle-Class. The latter accepted a certain amount of taxation/tithe-payments, in exchange for protection from marauding foreigners; and the former accepted that, fundamentally, they didn't have any real alternative to accepting such an arrangement.

As this new socio-economic paradigm matured and became the foundation for a new form of Capitalism - "Agrarian Capitalism" - the old manorial system gave way to an emergent market-based economy. Towns and cities increasingly began to flourish as market-hubs, where the products of agricultural activity could be sold to... "consumers". And it was at this point that "Profit" became much more important than it had previously been.

The "owner" of a profitable agricultural operation could and would find themselves in a position where they could afford to buy a less- or non-profitable agricultural operation. And if the cause of that owner's prosperity was a superior ability with agricultural techniques, and/or a competitive advantage gained from new agricultural "technology", then those same techniques and technologies could be used to make the recently acquired and previously unprofitable agricultural operation, a profitable agricultural operation.

It is at this stage in Human History then that we begin to see for the first time, a virtuous and incentivised link between productivity and profit. And more particularly, we see the main beneficiary of the increased profits (due to increased productivity) being the individual (or family/group) that *OWNS* the operation; as opposed to the maximal benefit going to those whose individual efforts result in the increased productivity.

Concomitant with this, we also begin to see for the first time, the reversal of fortunes between the Economically and Politically powerful.

In the Middle Ages, a Feudal Lord or King (the political authority) could pretty much set whatever level of taxation he thought he could get away with.  Many Lords and Kings over-taxed; almost none of them under-taxed; and occasionally, the odd handful got the balance about right.

But by the 17th and 18th Century, against the backdrop of the Age of Enlightenment and the deprecation of the "Divine Right of Kings", political power began to shift from the Aristocracy to the Landed Gentry. And pretty much the first order of business for the newly authorised Land-Owning (not Land-Defending, as with the Feudal Lords) classes, was the enactment of sweeping "reforms" like the [url=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enclosure]English Enclosure Acts[/url], which (materially) advantaged Land Owners, at the expense of those who worked the Land.

Simultaneously, the Age of Enlightenment was also the Age of Exploration. New sources of raw materials and luxury goods (new to Europeans, leastways) were being discovered on an almost daily basis, from the Sixteenth Century onwards. By the Eighteenth Century, the World had essentially become a battlefield for European Powers to compete on to capture territory that would provide an abundance of riches for the Powers concerned.

This entirely suited the populations of Europe - though less so the natives of "newly-discovered" lands - because it meant that the congenitally-bellicose descendants of the Feudal Aristocracy could exercise their martial prowess against poorly-armed natives, thousands of miles away from home; whilst the newly-formed and newly-empowered (and now Upper-) Middle-Classes could cement their powerbases on the Home Front.

Now the reason why I felt the need to so heavily illustrate this Historical background to Human Economic Affairs, is because it is important to understand the context in which modern (still current) Capitalist Theory was formed.

It was in 1776 that Adam Smith published [url=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Wealth_of_Nations]"The Wealth of Nations"[/url]. And this 18th Century publication is still to this day, pretty much "The Bible" for modern Capitalists.

Now the "wisdom" and teachings of the Abrahamic Bible may well have served a useful purpose when read by Neo-lithic tribes-people wandering around the Middle East three thousand years ago. But anyone with half-a-brain these days must recognise that those lessons may not have quite so much relevance to a globalised, technologically-advanced, 21st Century Human Society.

And I think it is just as fair to say that a theoretical Economic treatise developed against the back-drop of a World that appeared to be getting larger and larger with each passing day, with more and more riches being discovered and retrieved, and the suggestion of an infinite capacity for development... May need some radical revision as Humanity begins to understand the Reality of Finite Limits.

That is: limited availability of resources; limited geographical territory; and limits to the ability of the terrestrial environment to digest the outputs of Human Activity.

But what has actually happened - I can't help but feel as the result of a dogmatic and fundamentalist adherence to the Commandments of Capitalism - is that following the relatively brief interregnum of "Industrial Capitalism", Human Economic Activity has attempted (and continues to attempt) to liberate itself from the material restrictions of previous forms of Capitalism, with the invention of [url=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Financial_capitalism ]"Finance Capitalism"[/url].

Wikipedia defines "Finance Capitalism" as:

[quote]"...the subordination of processes of production to the accumulation of money profits in a financial system."[/quote]

In other words: wealth within the Finance Capitalist paradigm no longer has any link to the ownership of land or the means or processes of production, or even to the possession of patent ownership of technological innovations.

The measure of wealth within a Finance Capitalism Economy, is simply how much wealth you possess. More dubiously: the more wealth you have, the easier it becomes for you to acquire even more wealth.

Under the precepts of Mercantile Capitalism, one merchant could become wealthier than another merchant, by discovering or developing ways to purchase, transport and market goods at a higher profit margin than their competitor(s).

In an Agrarian Capitalism Economy, one Land-owner could become wealthier than another, by discovering and developing ways to improve the productivity of their agricultural operations.

And with Industrial Capitalism, an Industrialist could become wealthier than his peers through increases in productivity, technical innovation, and often, through simply working harder.

But with Finance Capitalism, the only necessary precursor to increased wealth is existing wealth.

Of course, you are entitled to convince yourself that the reason why you are getting wealthier is because of your hard work, research and intelligence, when it comes to maximising the returns on your financial investments. But the Truth is much more likely to be that you pay someone else (who has a better understanding of the complexities of Global Finance) to increase your wealth for you.

You can morally justify your amassment of wealth by claiming that you are "investing" in worthwhile enterprises, permitting others to gain benefit from your "decision to invest". But the Truth is that you aren't investing: you are speculating.

The more wealth you have, the more you can afford to lose. The more you can afford to lose, the more you can afford to gamble. The more you can afford to gamble, the greater your chances of winning a gamble.

You're not interested in "investing" your wealth in any enterprise that won't very quickly be able to give you a return on that "investment". And such is the increasingly fragile and parlous state of the Global Economic System, that you're not really interested in long-term "investments". A more-or-less guaranteed, though lower return on a short-term "investment", is preferable to a much less certain, though potentially higher return on a long-term "investment".

In other words: you are much more interested in betting on "Red" and "Black", than on single-number bets on the Roulette Wheel of Finance Capitalism.

All of which would be fine, if Human Society - and the Planet that Society Exists on - still had the same (apparently) infinite capacity for expansion that it must have appeared to Adam Smith and his contemporaries to have.

But it isn't - as those of us who still have to live in the Real World are becoming increasingly and painfully aware.

It would also be fine, if it wasn't for the fact that "Wealth" is, ultimately, a relative term.

You can only be "Wealthy" (or "Ultra-Wealthy") if there are others who are willing to be "Not-Wealthy" (or "Ultra-Not-Wealthy").

Financial whizz-kids, facilitated by powerful computing technologies, can continue to manufacture apparent "Wealth", through the creation of exotic and arcane financial instruments (all of which are based on debt obligations). But in the Finance Capitalist Paradigm, such inventions have absolutely no beneficial impact for the World at Large; indeed, they are nearly all without exception, wholly detrimental to anyone for whose direct benefit they were not created.

A Merchant Capitalist, whilst profiting handsomely from his discovery of a cheap source of product and a safe and secure means of transportation, at least brought new luxuries into people's lives.

An Agrarian Capitalist, whilst seeking to enrich their self, would also increase the availability of food for other human beings.

And an Industrial Capitalist, whilst ramping up production and trying to get as many manufactured goods out of the factory door, will provide employment, livelihood, and maybe even a trade for many workers. More than a few Industrial Capitalists even recognised that it was in their own personal financial interests, to make sure that those who they employed were paid enough to be able to afford to buy the products they were engaged to make.

But it isn't so easy to see what benefit Finance Capitalists introduce to Society at Large, with the constant creation of complex (and usually highly toxic) debt instruments. Of course, it transposes the Financial Capitalist's disposition for short-term gain onto those people who are encouraged to borrow money now and pay later. But it is getting increasingly difficult to maintain the belief that all this Debt Creation is in anyway a positive for Society as a Whole.

Yet this is where we find ourselves today. A Global Economic System teetering on the edge of oblivion, riddled with cancerous debt from top-to-toe.

Raised within and culturally conditioned by a Capitalist Society, we instinctively rally to the defence of the Ultra-Wealthy "Success Stories" we can only read about; in the same way that our ancestors were compelled and coerced into defending the Feudal Overlords whose Peacetime policies often kept those ancestors of ours living in misery.

But like I said previously: I really don't think that it is the Ultra-Wealthy individuals themselves who are at fault. I think that they are in fact just symptoms of an underlying systemic problem, rather than the cause (deliberate, benign, malevolent or otherwise) of Humanity's Economic woes.

Sadly for them however, History does tend to show that when a Society faces Economic Collapse, its Citizens are far more likely to blame those collapses on easily identified and high-profile individuals; rather than to address the underlying causes of a problem that is obviously more complex than just being the fault of a handful of greedy and self-serving humans.

What is needed is Root-and-Branch Change to the way Human Beings co-exist with each other; Change that is based on an enhanced and improved understanding of The Way The World Is.

Because it is never helpful to imagine that just chopping a few heads off here and there, will make The World The Way It Should Be.

:>_