[quote="SomeGuy"][color=#BF0040]Holyman, you tried to disprove [url=http://www.theoriginalpost.net/Forum/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=4618&start=25#p122512]this[/url] and yet you drop this drivel on us? Are you trying to prove my original assertion/conclusion right?[/color][/quote]

Heh.

I thought it might provoke... A useful discussion. :)

OK. Look...

As far as I am personally concerned, *ALL* perspectives, opinions, beliefs and ideologies are valid.

If a person believes something - anything - for whatever reasons... Then trying to tell them that they are wrong to believe what they believe, is essentially to try and function as the "Thought Police".

We talk a lot about Freedom of Speech... But what does that really mean? I think it means that everyone should be Free to think whatever they want to think... The "speech" bit is after-the-fact.

So as much as I (nearly always) disagree with *WHAT* Foota believes, and why he believes it, and (less so these days) disagree with what you believe SG... I absolutely respect that both of you have the right to believe whatever it is you both want or need to believe.

And let me hasten to add that this isn't because I'm a Planet-hugging wishy-washy Liberal... It is because I'm very intelligent and I completely recognise that without a vibrant spectrum of different ideas, beliefs and perspectives, there can be no intellectual rigour.

We define ourselves as much by what we don't believe in, as what we *DO* believe in. If no counter-opinions or alternative perspectives existed, how much conviction or faith could we put in our own beliefs?

You know that I have a fairly strong (and I hope, mostly consistent) set of opinions on any number of subjects, as I know you and Foota do. But do you also understand that as a person, as the man I am, that my idea of Hell would be being in the company *ONLY* of people who completely agreed with me?

I would claim as a virtue the fact that I spend the majority of my online time conversing with people whose views are (generally and frequently) the polar opposite of my own. But the only reason I don't think that makes me special, is because so do you and Foota and just about anyone else who expresses their opinion on social, political and cultural matters around here.

The strength of the OP (as far as I am concerned anyway), is that whilst we do have widely converging opinions and perspectives on matters, we keep coming back here to test and strengthen those opinions in the crucible of debate.

My concern at the polarising of "political" debate within the United States is that both "Left" and "Right", "Liberal" and "Conservative" (and as someone - Slacks, IIRC - has already said, they are very much relative terms...), is that it has reached such a point of vitriol and antipathy, that both sides have forgotten how much they need and depend upon each other.

Situations... Social, Domestic and Political... Get out of hand very quickly, when opposing (or merely alternative) views are silenced.

Our main issue with ISIS, Al Qaeda and all the other Wahhabist/Salafists, is not specifically down to the barbarity of their actions... It is that they have an Absolutist attitude towards what people should believe and how they should live their lives. The only Freedom of Choice they offer, is to choose to live exactly as they instruct you to live and believe exactly what they instruct you to believe...

...Or don't live at all.

That is what is at the core of our complete rejection of the Wahhabi Ideology.

If Wahhabists wanted to believe what they believe, but took no position at all (much less a lethal one) with regards to others who chose not to believe what Wahhabists believe... There would be no problem. Good luck to them.

There are plenty of Ultra-Conservative Jewish people and sects, who believe as fundamentally in (their) Scripture as the Wahhabists do... But they don't kill others who refuse to believe as they do; and they don't kill those amongst them who choose (eventually/occasionally) to stop believing the way they do.

No biggie then. They're like the Amish. A quaint (and to some, intriguing) layover from Humanity's past; but representing no threat at all to people who choose not to believe as they do.

But we all know that isn't the case with the Wahhabists, don't we?

So... The Wahhabists, like the German Nazis, the Chinese Maoists and the Russian Stalinists before them, serve even now, as the example of what goes wrong when we try to silence dissent, and refuse to allow and/or respect disagreement.

There is a Fundamental Truth about Life that many of us struggle with. It is this:

There is Nothing that is Absolutely Correct; and there is Nothing that is Absolutely Incorrect.

This is true of ideas, opinions, theories and of course, beliefs. Even "Facts"... Are just those things that we all generally and to some extent objectively agree upon. But "Absolute Correctness" is still not guaranteed with "Facts"... Because there always seems to be something more to discover about even the most uncontentious of "Facts".

We know all this to be True, but we struggle to implement that knowledge in our daily lives. If our own humility or lack of arrogance might allow that what we believe is not Absolutely Correct; we do not always extend the same courtesy to others, to allow that what they believe may not be Absolutely Incorrect.

It seems... Easier... To respond to a differing or divergent opinion by trying to dismiss or denigrate it. Or to dismiss or denigrate the person offering such opinions. But when we do that, we do ourselves a disservice, since we are denying ourselves the opportunity to either strengthen our own opinions, or to examine the nature of our conviction in a particular opinion.

What if we pay careful attention to that different opinion, really understand what the person offering that opinion is trying to communicate, and then are able to successfully deconstruct and intellectually invalidate that opinion to our own (if rarely the other's) satisfaction? That can only be to the benefit of our own perspectives and opinions.

And who knows, perhaps as we go through that process of deconstruction and invalidation, we may identify areas in our own opinions that need tuning, recalibrating and/or strengthening.

We could not do this if Everyone Else shared exactly the same opinion and perspective as we do.

What did Alexander the Great do, when he realised there was no more World left for him to conquer? He wept. What did Mohammed Ali do when he fully proved and completely realised his status as The Greatest? He let himself go.

What *WOULD* we all do, if nobody ever disagreed with us?

We define ourselves as individuals by the unique and idiosyncratic set of opinions and ideals we each hold. How would or could we define ourselves if there was no uniqueness or idiosyncrasies about what we each believe?

We *NEED* opposing opinions to survive, individually and collectively. So why on Earth have we allowed a situation to develop where our hatred of "Them" and "Their Opinions" has become so viscerally polarised?

Because make no mistake: that is where the United States of America is at right now.

As Slacks (I think) mentioned, "Left" and "Right" are relative terms. American Republicans/Conservatives and Libertarians see the likes of Obama, the Clintons and Pelosi as "Left Wing Liberals". But nobody outside of the U.S. does. As far as Europeans are concerned, the U.S. Democrat Pantheon sits to the ideological Right of all European Right Wing/Conservative parties; and U.S. Republicans still further to the right.

Even Bernie Sanders wouldn't be admitted to any European Socialist Party, on account of his support for U.S. Militarism.

But to listen to Americans, to listen to the U.S. Media, to politically engaged American citizens, and to authors of the piece at the top of this thread, it seems like the American "Right" and American "Left" are as ideologically distant as Hitler's Fascists and Stalin's Communists.

The American "Right's" and "Left's" automatic - *COMPULSIVE* - rejection of each other's opinions is what is destroying the United States.

For a Nation that considers itself to have an Exceptional attitude towards Freedom, you really don't allow each other a great deal of Freedom of Thought.

You might want to look into that, when you are President SG.