[quote="MIDNIGHT"][color=#FF0000]Please explain..... :-?[/color][/quote]

Oh... OK.

It works like this:

When it comes to Ideological Views - Politics, Religion, Economics, Morality &c. - we are never quite certain in ourselves that what we believe is absolutely correct.

And that's a good thing.

Because if we Believe Without Doubt, then we become Fundamentalists, which is just a preliminary transit point on the way to Pscyhosis. And that rarely results in a happy outcome...

So whilst we tend to believe "very strongly" in our ideological positions, unless we want a visit to the Funny Farm, it is healthy to leave an element of doubt and uncertainty in our World View.

But "Ideological Views" is a Team Sport.

We can rarely be bothered to thoroughly and intellectually examine, deconstruct and then reconstruct our own Ideological Views. So we rely on our Team-mates to reassure us that any gaps in our reasoning and the basis for our Ideological Views are well-covered.

In other words: though we may not be able to fully substantiate our own Ideological Position, we can usually point to someone else who sounds like they probably can. These are the "High Priests" and "High Priestesses" of our particular Ideological Team.

We, are mere acolytes: Ideological Foot Soldiers, if you will.

We don't have the time or inclination to read up on all the intellectual and historical foundations of the Ideology we have adopted as our own, so we rely on others to do that. If there are penetrating, rational, highly intellectual debates to be had between our Ideological Teams, then we leave that to our Teams' Most Valuable Players.

*OUR* job is to "Man the Trenches", so-to-speak.

So we have our doubts about our Ideological Views, and we do not have the comprehensive, unassailable, utterly inarguable intellectual basis for those views that our Team's Standard Bearers do...

But that's okay. Because we are not going to be up against the other Team's Standard Bearers: we will be tackling *THEIR* Foot Soldiers. What we might lack in terms of intellectual understanding of a concrete rationale for our Ideological View, we more than make up for with our Passion and our Fury.

And we all know The Rules of the Game:

If a member of our Team should happen to... Overstep the boundaries of acceptable form... Then whilst their behaviour is probably regrettable, and certainly not to be condoned... It is most likely to be understandable, if not fully excusable, given their furious passions.

Critically: any aberrant behaviour on the part of one of our own Team's members is most certainly *NOT* indicative of the Team as a Whole.

...Even if the particular Team member in question is the person we have nominated to be our Team's Captain, in the next Ideological World Series.

However...

If a member of the *OTHER* Team should have the kind of outrageous conduct they regularly and routinely engage in, exposed to the glare of Public Scrutiny, then quite obviously, that is [i]prima facie[/i] evidence of the moral bankruptcy of their entire Team - especially their Team's Leadership!

And since such behaviour demonstrates the Moral Bankruptcy of that Team, it must also indicate the complete lack of intellectual substance and reason in their Ideological Views.

What really then is the point of bothering to intellectually dissect their Ideology - much less engage in any qualitative comparison with our own Ideology - when the totally unacceptable conduct of the people who subscribe to their Ideology clearly demonstrates its absolute inferiority?

See... We do not actually need to fully understand the Ideology that we affiliate and associate our Personal Identities with. All we need to do is highlight the terrible conduct of people who subscribe to the alternative, competing Ideology.

That should be more than enough to reassure ourselves of the superiority of our own Ideological Views...

Shouldn't it?