[quote="The Great Fucking Walnut"][color=#008040]HM,  that at least makes some sort of sense in the Big Picture.

I  am going to invoke the Law of Unintended  Consequences  though.  This will not end the way that anyone wants.[/color][/quote]

Actually Walnut, overnight I've been reflecting on our discourse, and I figure I ought to qualify my position and the points I made.

Your entry into this thread began with an expression of your (and your wife's) disheartenment and, I infer, disillusionment around the behaviour of the Obama Administration over this particular episode. And you raised a lot of questions about the Administration's "justifications" and motivations.

Predictably enough then, I jumped in with an explanation of my own World View, which was really an expression of a lack of disillusionment on my part, because everything is playing out according to the meta-paradigm within which I, personally, frame the World.

And so my first response was a somewhat superficial, and perhaps unintentionally glib response about "The Emperor" having no clothes on.

Quite rightly, you picked me up on the superficiality of my response, and - suitably scolded (!) - I dug in with my wild and unsubstantiated theories about the desire of Power Interests to build a pipeline through Syria, in order to reduce Russian influence and control over NATO's European partners.

Now, I do stand by that theory, but only as just *ONE* potential driver for the USG's current stance towards Syria. Just as I stand by my thesis on the essential puppet status of all elected Heads of State.

But what I felt I should emphasise - after my nocturnal reflections - are two points:

The first is that I'm no Absolutist.

I'm no Foota, in other words. I keep an open mind about things, always. I'm always ready to tweak, enhance, or even completely discard ideas, if further information comes to Light that contradicts any previously held notions. To be honest, I think that's the only healthy way to operate a mind in this World.

The second point I wanted to make to you personally Walnut, is that I wasn't trying to impress upon you or get you to accept *MY* version of the events that are unfolding.

You came in questioning the situation - again, asking questions is a much healthier attitude than rigidly sticking to "answers" - because you were feeling a little discombobulated by the narrative being projected at you from "Official Sources". My response then was to offer you my (current) attitude towards these events; and then to back up my rationale for believing what I do, whilst I continue to believe it. That's all.

In our Societies, we are bombarded with "Official" narratives around domestic and geo-political situations and events. And really, in response to hearing those narratives, we only have two options.

The first is to take Foota's approach, which is to accept without question the moral and ideological aspects of those narratives, with perhaps a permissible and slight questioning of some of the minor and inconsequential detail - particularly if you are a Red Party supporter and it is the Blue Party that is presenting the narrative (or vice versa).

The alternative approach is to Question Everything. If something doesn't make sense to you, then you have a responsibility to your own (and others') Intellectual Freedom to question and/or reject that something. If you don't, if you doggedly accept an explanation that, whilst it doesn't make sense to you, must be taken on Faith because of the "Authority of the Source"; then you are setting yourself up for the kind of mental anguish and cognitive dissonance that we see displayed by Ideological Fundamentalists of every ilk - Religious, Political, Economic &c.

Actually, the same goes for narratives or "explanations" that you hear from unofficial sources too: the more radical websites on the 'Net; compulsive polemicists like myself; the contrary Loud-Mouth in the bar or office.

It's all about refusing to accept or embrace ideas that don't make sense to you.

Now, to clarify: something that doesn't make sense to you isn't the same as something that you disagree with.

I'm currently working with the wealthiest and largest (by volume of trades) fund management company in the U.K. Last year, it made a profit of £18 billion on a turnover of £84 billion. Now I don't agree with such naked and brutal materialism, but I do completely understand how it all works, and can entirely make sense of why it works the way it does and what motivates people to continue to engage with and support such enterprises.

In other words: I disagree with the intention and action; but can make sense of why it is happening.

I think that this is why the actions of the Bush Administration weren't quite so discomfiting. There was a naked simplicity about the ambitions and activities of the Neo-Conservatives, not least because they had declared their aims in their manifesto document, "The Project for a New American Century".

I didn't agree with the Neo-Con's intentions and actions - I felt/feel they were short-sighted, unsustainable, and therefore counterproductive - but I understood and could make sense of them, mostly because I took the time to read "The Project for a New American Century".

By placing all of the actions of the Bush Administration into the framework of PNAC and other Neo-Con pronouncements, it all made perfect sense, up to and including "The War on Terror", the Invasion of Iraq, and shit like Guantanamo prison and the "Extraordinary Rendition" of political captives to countries like, uh, Syria...

It's also why I was able to make sense of the entirely predictable Financial Meltdown that occurred at the end of the Bush Administration's term (I *SAID* their actions were short-sighted, unsustainable and counterproductive!).

But it's obviously all a bit different with the Presidential Administration of Barack "The Audacity of Hope!" Obama.

For starters, Team Obama never had a policy manifesto as clearly defined (in all its nakedness and shamelessness) as the Neo-Con's "Project for a New American Century". All the effort went into getting "The First Black President!" elected, without a great deal of thought given to what that first black President would actually do once he was in office.

There were of course all sorts of pledges like shutting down Guantanamo Bay, withdrawing from Afghanistan, Universal Healthcare, and getting the Economy back on track. But to be honest, what else could Obama's team have promised? What else did they *NEED* to promise, after 8 years of the Neo-Conservatives?

But apart from these lofty goals, expressed with all due sincerity by the soon-to-be Nobel Laureate President, there was very little detail, much less any concrete plans for implementation. And I do sincerely believe that a somewhat naïve, instinctively compliant, and fundamentally well-meaning President-Elect was very quickly ground-down by the enormous pressures of the Political-Economic Machine. A machine that continues to function as the inexorable, single-minded engine in the heart of the Washington, D.C. beltway, regardless of which poor sap has been permitted to sip from the poison chalice sitting on THAT desk in the Oval Office.

The undeniable Truth about "politics" in every country (not just yours, but most evident there), is the sheer deluge of Power targeted - in the form of Money - at the lonely individual who sits at the Nexus between The Powerful and the Dispossessed.

Lest Foota accuse me of hyperbole, I'll re-state that in less poetic language:

The financiers on Wall Street, the arms merchants in the Defense Industry, the scions of the Oil Dynasties, the patent-owners in the Pharmaceutical Industry, and all manner of other assorted "Power Players" all pay for and buy the political offices in our democracies.

They all invest very heavily in the Election Campaigns of politicians in both the Red and Blue Parties. And they all expect a return on those investments.

It really is as naked, obvious and straight-forward as that. You don't need a tinfoil hat to accept that, you only need to look at the receipts for "Political Donations" and "Lobbying Fees", all of which are in the Public Domain.

If I recall correctly, Barack Obama's team spent $1 billion to get that first black man elected to the White House. Politicians don't earn money, they spend it. That sort of money had to come from somewhere, and it no more came from average American citizens, than it came without strings attached.

When Obama walked into the Oval Office on his first day as President of the United States, he walked in as a man - a human being - heavily in debt, to the tune of at least $1 billion. Fortunately for him, he wasn't ever going to be required to repay that debt as cash with interest; he was only required to repay it through his exercising the authority and Power vested in his newly acquired office.

It really has ever been thus Walnut.

Again, not just in the United States, but all over the World, throughout History.

Now, I'm not saying that a potential plan for a potential pipeline, potentially through Syria is the sole reason for the current activity in the World's Corridors of Power. Just as there is the "Law of Unintended Consequences", there is also the Rule that "You Don't Put All Your Eggs in One Basket".

Nothing ever happens for a single reason. There are many potential benefits, just as there are many potential risks, in continuing to destabilise Syria and the efforts being made to remove a government allied with Russia. Could be plans for a LNG pipeline; could be plans to reduce Syria's ability to obstruct an attack on Iran; could be a grand strategic move to continue and complete the encirclement of Russia; could be some whacked-out internecine religious agenda being promulgated by the Gulf Arabs...

Could be some, all or none of the above.

But the one thing that you can be absolutely certain it is *NOT*, is the "Official" reason being presented to the American and wider Global Public: that it is a Humanitarian exercise, intended to alleviate the suffering of innocent Syrian Civilians.

That explanation just makes no sense whatsoever. None of the History, none of the circumstantial evidence, none of the actions or intentions of the Powers involved indicate or support any semblance of Truth to the notion.

And from that, all you need to conclude is: You Are Not Being Told The Truth.

Actually, the responsibility isn't yours or mine to come up with an alternative explanation. The only thing that we are required to do is to accept that we are being lied to, by our "Elected" representatives. And that, in this particular regard, we are being told lies that, if accepted, will inevitably lead to more death and destruction being rained down on yet more hapless children in Syria.

And the Real Truth is: if we tolerate this, then *OUR* children will be next.

:>_