How to Incentivise Process Improvements

Process A is felt to be ineffective and inefficient, in its "Current State".

There is a sense that the way that Process A operates (flows) can be made more effective and efficient (friction can be reduced).

Resources are tasked/assigned to seek those process improvements (improve flow/reduce friction).

As soon as the potential for an improved, "Ideal State" is identified and acknowledged, the Organisation accepts the unnecessary resource overhead created by the on-going operation of the ineffective and inefficient Process A, in its "Current State".

The sooner the Enterprise can move to a more effective and efficient Process, in a "Future State" that reflects as closely as possible, the theorised "Ideal State"; the sooner the Enterprise can achieve its efficiency gains and redirect its finite resources elsewhere ("Save Money").

An appropriately data-sourced Change Case will fully identify and describe the precise efficiency gains to be obtained from improving Process A ("How much money will be saved.").

The Business Case/Project Justification/Change Request (&c.), will justify itself on the basis of how much it reduces operational overheads - the day-to-day cost of running the Organisation ("Saves Money").

Process efficiencies are sought in order to achieve greater organisational agility; but they are primarily sought to reduce costs and waste.

If an individual Process Owner improves the efficiency and effectiveness of their process, in a way that quantifiably saves the Organisation money, for as long as that improved process is adhered to and continually improved...

...How do they personally benefit?

They have just reduced the operational overhead of an Organisation, thereby reducing that Organisation's dependency on the number of Process Operators it must keep engaged.

To the individual Process Owner and Operator, the task of seeking Process Improvements seems like asking cattle to stun themselves once they have walked into the slaughterhouse.

And unless Organisations come to terms with this at the level where Institutional Policy is set, there can never be any effective strategic engagement with the individuals whose assistance is most necessary for seeking efficiency improvements.

("Management and Executives will continue to be told to fuck-off by the Shop-Floor.")

At the very least, Process Owners and Operators (the "Shop-Floor") have learned from Experience that if they play the "Waiting Game" (about the only Game that cattle can understand the rules to...), there's a good chance that the current tide of whatever bollocks Management are currently spouting, will wash a way to reveal a further "alternative approach", that with any luck, may not have the same "Self-Stunning" requirement.

A more effective policy to encourage Process Owners and Operators to seek improvements in the processes they are most familiar with, is to offer them a share of the financial gain achieved from the implementation of their process improvements.

The percentage and duration of that "Bonus" period, where the individual or group - who identified, championed and implemented the improvement - receives a share of the financial gain from the process improvement...

...will be subject to individual Corporate Policy. A quite natural addition to the usual suite of enticements, such as number of days paid leave, healthcare packages, pension arrangements.

Typical example might be:

Person/Team that delivered the Process Improvement receives 25% of the demonstrated cost savings for the first 12 months of operation.

Win-Win, as they say:

Process Improver gets a defined sum that reflects their contribution; and the Organisation saves 75% in the first year, and 100% every year after that. (% saving of what they are no longer having to spend on inefficient and ineffective - and therefore unnecessary - elements of the process in its previous state.)

This can easily be cascaded up and down through layers of Management Authority, so that for example, an Operational or Project Manager who encourages and incubates a strong culture of Process Improvement - as indicated by the amount of "Process Bonus" being awarded to their team - will also have their contribution materially rewarded.

And if an individual or team thinks that it all still carries the whiff of "Self-Stunning", then they have an opportunity to improve and automate the shit out of every single one of their processes, in as rapid a time as possible, and retire on the bounty they gain from all those process improvements.

All that is required is that for every Process Improvement Case proposed to include a precise accounting of the realisable cost-efficiencies to be gained.

This happens routinely at senior levels within an organisation. Information Technology has now made it easier to do it atma much more granular level, without any impracticable overhead.

Any Change Case that does not clearly define the efficiencies to be gained from the Change, albeit within a policy-limited margin-of-error, is incomplete and cannot be properly approved.

If those proposing the Change Case(s) do so in the knowledge that the identified cost-efficiency gains - once suitably verified and approved - will directly and immediately influence their material remuneration, they will learn very keenly how to cost-justify their proposals.

("Tell people to calculate how much money they will personally earn from their work... And they'll figure out how to do that... Usually quite quickly.")

And once they understand that those Process Improvements also make their and others' functions much easier (leaner and more agile), they will be motivated to become fluent at doing those cost-justifications.

("They'll do it not just 'cause they get paid more if they do, but everyone else likes them more too.")

And before you know it...

Your own Organisation has created and fertilised its own Incubator. Its own technological and intellectual Digital Territory, where Networks of Human Beings collaborate, co-operate AND compete...

...To figure out how to do Everything more Efficiently, and with much less Waste.

What's not to like?