Right...

This article:

[spoiler]  [/spoiler]

...Is lengthy and complex, 'cos it's about Economics; and TL'DR-ish for even the hardiest of OP'rs.

However, it is also by the Economist I have been following most keenly for the last half-decade or so, and I *NEED* to get my head around this particular article, 'cos it feels important.

Karl Marx comes pops up somewhat frequently in a lot of stuff I read about the Economy, but I tend to skip over those references 'cos I've never made it through any of his books as I find the prose a bit leaden... Plus, having to filter out all the stuff that was only relevant in the mid-19th Century is a bit of a chore. And, well, Marxists...

Michael Hudson (author of the article) rarely refers to Marx. He more frequently focuses on Bronze Age Society and the (uncomfortably) similar issues to Modern Society that they had with their Economies.

But as I read through this latest article, there was a lot of stuff in it (none of the stuff referencing Marx though) that caught my attention.

So I figured I'd "Cliff-Notes" it here...

All responses welcome, of course, particularly keen to hear from AV, Hoff, Slacks & SG, who often come up with pertinent points/questions on the subject of Economics.

But... You know... Don't feel obligated or anything!

Here goes:

Debt grows exponentially. Consequently it becomes a significant burden to the Economy.

The debt overhead is subjecting today's Western Finance-Capitalist economies to austerity, shrinking living standards, and is increasing the cost of living and doing business.

This is the main reason why the West is losing its export markets (to China, mostly) and becoming de-industrialised.

Interest on debt is extractive. It takes value *OUT* of the productive areas of the Economy.

The biggest problem at the moment is the cost of housing.

Rising housing prices mean larger and larger debts extracting interest out of the Economy.

The more money you pay in mortgage interest or rent, the less money you can spend on everything else.

Businesses that sell non-essential goods and services are struggling; whilst money-lenders are experiencing boom-times.

The strongest way to keep down the cost of housing is to tax away the rise in land prices.

The resale value of a residential house, or its rental price, is primarily determined by location, location, location.

You could build a state-of-the-art mutli-roomed mansion... But if you built it in a run-down part of town, or on an island off the north-east coast of Scotland, you wouldn't be able to sell it for anything like what you could sell it for if it were built in or close to a major metropolis, with functioning transport links and local amenities.

You can fractionally increase the value of your home by carrying out home improvements; but substantial increases in the value of your home are achieved by an increase in the desirability of the location your home is sited in.

There are many factors that make a location more or less desirable. But you, and what you do in and to your home, is rarely one of them.

So...

When the value of your residential property increases significantly, it is not because of anything you have done.

So any income you may be able to realise from the increase in value of your residential property, and any additional income you can earn by increasing the price at which you rent out your property...

...is unearned.

It just falls in your lap because of stuff going on around you, over which you have little or no control.

It is currently the case that in some areas of some Western nations, residential property prices are rising so fast, that they "earn" more money in a year than the person living in it earns.

Failure to tax away the rise in "land" prices, enables banks to create debt against these ever-rising prices.

...

U.S. and European business schools are part of the problem, not part of the solution.

They teach the tactics of asset stripping and how to replace industrial engineering with financial engineering.

Instead of teaching how to develop and expand the productive, industrial base of a Society; they teach how to convert already industrially productive elements of the Economy, into monetizable commodities.

The [i]"Rentier"[/i] class were dominant before the Industrial Revolution. All Economic power (wealth) flowed upwards to those individuals who had inherited the means to rent out land and property.

The Industrial Revolution was supposed to put paid to this, by shifting Economic power to those who were capable of creating value from raw materials by producing manufactured goods. The Digital Revolution was supposed to build on this by imbuing Knowledge and Subject Matter Expertise with Economic value.

But since the late 19th Century, the [i]"Rentiers"[/i] have been fighting back.

John Bates Clark denied that economic rent was unearned. He redefined it as payment for the landlords' labour and enterprise, not as accruing "in their sleep", as J.S. Mill had characterised it.

Interest was depicted as payment for the "service" of lending productively, not as exploitation. Everyone's income and wealth was held to represent payment for their contribution to production.

The thrust of this approach was epitomised by Milton Friedman's Chicago School claim that "there is no such thing as a free lunch" - in contrast to classical economics saying that Feudalism's legacy of privatised land ownership, bank credit and monopolies, was *ALL* about how to get a free lunch, by exploitation.

The other reaction was English and Austrian "utility" theory. Focusing on consumer psychology instead of production costs, it claimed that there is no difference between value and price.

A price is whatever consumers "choose" to pay for commodities, based on the "utility" that these provide - defined by circular reasoning as being equal to the price they pay.

Producers are assumed to invest and produce goods to "satisfy consumer demand", as if consumers are the driving force of economies, not capitalists, property owners or financial managers.

Using junk-psychology, interest was portrayed as what bankers or bondholders "abstain" from consuming themselves. Lending their self-denial of spending to "impatient" consumers and "credit-worthy" entrepreneurs.

This view opposed the idea of interest as a predatory charge levied by hereditary wealth and the privatised monopoly right to create bank credit.

Marx quipped that in this view, the Rothschilds must be Europe's most self-depriving and abstaining family, not as suffering from wealth-addiction...

Any rate of interest may be thought of as a doubling time. What doubles is not real growth, but the parasitic financial burden *ON* this growth.

The more the debt burden grows, the less income is left for spending on goods and services. This slows investment in new means of production, because it shrinks domestic markets for output.

The "credit" system is external to the means of production. It existed in ancient times, Feudal Europe, and has survived Industrial Capitalism and the Digital Revolution, to exist even in Socialist economies.

Industrial banking was expected to finance industrial capital formation: it is now consuming it.

The return to pre-Industrial Banking occurred around the time of World War One. Banks focused on lending against collateral already in place, not on financing new means of production. The result of this is that some 80 percent of bank lending in the U.S. and U.K. now takes the form of real estate mortgages.

And the effect of this is to turn land's rental yield into interest.

This transformation gives bankers a strong motive to oppose taxing land rent, knowing that they will end up with whatever the tax collector relinquishes.

Most of the remaining bank lending is concentrated in loans for corporate takeovers, mergers and acquisitions, and consumer loans. Corporate capital investment in today's West is not financed by bank credit, but almost entirely out of retained corporate earnings, and secondarily out of stock issues.

The Stock Market itself has become extractive.

Corporate earnings are used for stock buybacks and higher dividend payouts, not for new tangible investment.

This financial strategy was made explicit by Harvard Business School Professor Michael Jensen, who advocated that salaries and bonuses for corporate managers should be based on how much they can increase the price of their companies' stock; not on how much they increased production and/or business size.

92 percent of corporate profits in recent years have been spent on stock buyback programs and dividend payouts.

That leaves only about 8 percent available to be re-invested in new means of production and hiring.

Corporate America's financial managers are turning financialised companies into debt-ridden corporate shells.

The result of today's alliance of the Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIRE) sector with natural resource and infrastructure monopolies has been to reverse the 20th century reforms promoting progressive taxation of wealth and income.

Industrial Capitalism in the West has been detoured along the road to rent-extracting privatisation, austerity and debt serfdom.

The result is a double-crisis: austerity stemming from debt deflation, while public health, communications, information technology, transportation and other basic infrastructure are privatised by corporate monopolies that raise prices charged to labour and industry.

The Economy polarises as income and wealth ownership are shifted to the [i]"Neo-Rentier"[/i] alliance, headed by the Financial Sector.

This Counter-Revolution has inverted the classical concept of Free Markets.

Instead of advocating a public role to lower the cost structure of business and labour, the Neo-Liberal ideal excludes public infrastructure and government ownership of natural monopolies, not to speak of industrial production.

Led by Bank lobbyists, Neo-Liberalism even opposes public regulation of finance and monopolies to keep their prices in line with socially necessary cost of production.

The West's debt crisis is aggravated by privatising monopolies (on credit) that historically have belonged to the Public Sector.

Instead of recognising the virtues of a mixed economy, Frederick Hayek and his followers from Ayn Rand to Margaret Thatcher, Ronald Reagan, the Chicago School and libertarian Republicans have claimed that *ANY* public ownership or regulation is, [i]ipso facto[/i], a step toward totalitarian politics.

Following this ideology, Alan Greenspan aborted economic regulation and decriminalised financial fraud.

He believed that in principle, the massive bank fraud, junk-mortgage lending and corporate raiding that led up to the 2008 crisis, was more efficient than regulating such activities or prosecuting fraudsters.

This is the Neo-Liberal ideology taught in U.S. and European business schools. That whatever increases financial wealth most quickly, is the most efficient for Society as a whole.

It also assumes that bankers will find honest dealing to be more in their economic self-interest than fraud, because customers would shun fraudulent bankers.

But along with the mathematics of compound interest, the inherent dynamic of Finance Capitalism is to establish a monopoly and capture government regulatory agencies, the Justice System, Central Bank and Treasury, to prevent any alternative policy and the prosecution of fraud.

The aim is to get rich by purely financial means, not by tangible capital formation.

This is the opposite of the industrial logic of expanding the Economy and its markets.

Instead of creating a more productive economy and raising living standards, Finance Capitalism is imposing austerity by diverting wage income and also corporate income to pay rising debt service, health insurance and payments to privatised monopolies.

...

Industrial Capitalism is the form of Capitalism that most people who support Capitalism believe in.

It is the form of Capitalism that allows inventive and/or hard-working individuals to earn their way to a wealthy status.

Industrial Capitalism (especially when practiced in conjunction with the "Triple Bottom Line" that includes Corporate and Social Responsibility) benefits Society, because it increases employment opportunities, advances technological development, and through competition and co-operation, advances Society as a Whole.

But Industrial Capitalism is infected with the cancer that is Finance Capitalism.

Finance Capitalism is all about exploiting others' ingenuity and hard-work, to gain a "Free Lunch".

Industrial Capitalism necessarily adjusts and adapts to prevailing environmental conditions. If the Environment will no longer stand for Industrial practices that pollute the World, Industry *WILL* adapt to more environmentally-friendly techniques, because there is money to be made in doing so, and money to be lost in not doing so.

But Finance Capital ensures a relentless and exponentially-increasing burden on corporations and consumers alike, which compels both Business owner and employee to work and live in the cheapest and most short-term ways.

Finance Capital is destroying our Industry, our Lives, and our World.

It needs to be stopped.