[quote=Jollyhalfassedgeek][color=firebrick]But what if the policemen you're waiting for are too busy slurping up the last dozen free Krispy Kremes, and are really just fat bloated bureaucrats too timid to act? What to do when the dispatcher consistently wrings her hands instead of putting out the All-Points-Bulletin?

I vote you put thump the bastard in the noggin to get his attention, zip-tie him if he still wants to beat the wife and child, and hold him there until the "Police" finally get off their lard-ass to come take care of the problem.

So how long do we watch over the inbred-wife-beater?  Until the next segment of "Idol" starts again on the tv?[/color][/quote]

Well I think then you've identified [b]*TWO*[/b] duties that a responsible citizen will have to attend to, simultaneously.

The first is to protect the woman and/or children under attack; and the second is to remedy the faults you've identified in the Policing System.

I ought to reiterate something that I've been writing around here for a while 'Geek, to give you a fuller understanding of my position.

I have got no problem with external intervention, to prevent on-going Crimes Against Humanity.

I believe that a World and Society at Peace with itself [b]*IS*[/b] possible; and I also recognise that certain sections of Human Society are going to have to be dragged kicking and screaming to a 21st Century respect for Human Rights - and that may very well be their just desserts. The issue I have - and which regularly forms the centre-piece of Foota's and my dialogue - is [b]*WHO*[/b] carries out the "dragging", and with what validity or legitimacy they act.

From the get-go, I have never questioned the personal motives of U.S. Troops in Iraq; I have only ever questioned and criticised in whose name they are acting.

I'm going to mention the United Nations now, but please don't think that I consider the U.N. as presently constituted a perfect or ideal body or authority. I do however recognise the [b]*IDEAL*[/b] of the United Nations, as envisaged by its American founders, immediately following World War Two.

I don't believe in centralised government of any form, feeling strongly and observing through experience that the more authority given to an individual, over more people, leads only to the psychological corruption of that individual. I think that the only practical way for Humans to govern themselves, is to do so on a local, community level, as far as that is possible.

De-centralisation for the Win! ...In other words.

So when I talk about a "World Government", I'm not talking about a massively centralised, Global bureaucracy, governing the lives of billions, from a single, central office. What I am talking about is a body that, one way or another, recognises that We - that is Humanity - are all in this together. And that the provision of a body or institution where differences between participating human communities can be worked out and resolved, in the presence of their peers, is the only practical hope for Humanity.

I understand this to be the idea and motivation of the Americans who set-up the United Nations after World War Two, and see no reason why it can not be developed to full fruition.

It isn't about surrendering one's national identity, quite the opposite in fact. We see in Europe at the moment, a greater emphasis on smaller regional communities, forming together under the European banner. Spain is a good example, so too Belgium. These are "Nations" that are really disappearing, and being replaced by their regional component parts, as they come together on a grander, European scale. Why join Europe as a single, Spanish Nation, when you can participate with the European Project, as the far more familiar (and locally relevant) Catalonian, Andalucian or Basque regions?

And of course, in the United States of America, we already have a tried and tested example of the way that culturally related, but nevertheless distinct States, can form together in a common union, without losing their cultural heritage.

If you can imagine the U.S. political system without the involvement of political parties, then the system as defined by the Founding Fathers is still the best example of Federalism that exists. You just have to be able to imagine that Senators, Congressmen and Congresswomen, [b]*JUST*[/b] representing the interests of their States, rather than one of the two National Parties.

In such a situation, you would have, I believe, a perfect template for a Federation of Earth States.

We'd need as well, of course, to flip upside down the general conception of the way that power flows, to and from the "Centre" (that's, uh, "Center" ;)); and you do that really by defining what [b]*IS*[/b] the Centre of any Government.

Instead of it being the President, Prime Minister, King or Dictator; the Centre of any Government should be, The Citizen.

So, The Citizen would have his or her Rights enshrined in a Bill of Rights, really and fully protecting that individual from what some political philosophers call, "The Tyranny of the Majority". And here, the French and American Constitutional Republic model will serve, in its ideal form.

The first "Ring" or "Circle" of Power surrounding the individual Citizen, would be the Community that they actually live in. That is, the definable, [b]*LOCAL*[/b] Community that they are apart of. Each Community can, with their smaller scope, enact all manner of social and moral legislation, to define what kind of a Community they choose to be, and how they desire members of that Community to behave. This with the full understanding that any Citizen that doesn't like that Community's rules, can move to another Community whose rules better reflect that Citizen's proclivities.

The next "Ring" or "Circle" out would be solely concerned with the provision of practical necessities for Living, that are common to all Communities within its sphere. Such as education, health provision, energy and utility supply.

And finally, the outermost "Circle" would be on the grandest scale - the Whole World - and would be concerned solely with matters that are common to all Humanity; that is, upholding basic Human Rights, protecting World Peace, and serving the interests of the [b]*WHOLE*[/b] of Humanity.

In short, the greater the constituency or jurisdiction of a level of Human Government, the less powers it has.

So an ideal United Nations Assembly, would be tasked solely with preventing inter-community conflict, by providing a meeting chamber where differences can be resolved Peacefully - however long that takes - and expressly preventing the use of violence or threat of the use of violence between the individual Communities of the World: that is all.

At that point, the United Nations/Federal Earth "Government", would in effect, become the Global Police Force; operating solely in support of the interest of [b]*ALL*[/b] humans; and upholding basic human rights in all the areas of the World.

Now in such a situation, had all the American troops that have served, or are serving in Iraq, carried out precisely the same mission they have/are, using the same methods, strategies and tactics they have; but had done so in the name of a multi-lateral, Global Police Force - i.e. had worn the blue helmets of the U.N., rather than acted under the flag of a single nation/single political group of humans: then I would be cheering them on, offering my full support, and thanking them all for their service.

As it is, their duty and their sacrifice - carried out with undoubted noble intention - have been squandered under the banner of the Bush Administration.

I think it is of [b]*VITAL*[/b] importance that Humanity demonstrates its Self-Respect; and I would and will always support actions that are intended to uphold the basic Human Rights of every Human Individual on the Planet.

But when a single nation decides to act in the manner of a vigilante, often breaking the very laws it claims to be upholding, I am compelled to object to such action. Not for any moral or even Spiritual reason; but purely for practical reasons.

The Police can not behave as though they believe themselves above the Law; for this undermines the very principles they exist to serve. When a country like the United States of America - which really should be an example to all other Nations - believes it can do whatever it chooses; it undermines the very foundations of the only concept that Humans have ever been able to use to live in Peace with one another:

The Law.

Good Citizens can and should protect the weak in their Communities; and if the Law and Law Enforcement in their Communities is inadequate, then they should fix that too.

Peace