[quote=steelhed][color=red]You're a funny guy Holyman, but you clearly do not resemble the message in your signature! Now that i finally realise you don't even live in America, where is it that you do live, so that i may understand these major misconceptions that our so called PBF worlds most intelligent man is a victim of. America enjoys a freedom of religeon, states run my Muslims had better enjoy one faith, or be put to death... I'm sorry, but there is a fuckin wedge here, and it aint mine or Americas fault buddy! I never have, and never will lie and say the American government has not bullied other nations, and for that fact, i have not been happy with our Government, but at least i have the FUCKIN FREEDOM to say so!!!! As easy as it is to "insert America here", that was a poor attempt as most "inserts" didn't even apply..

.

You're gonna have to get off your high horse or face a serious slap of reality bud! It IS apprarent from your arrogance and self exalting attitude, that you have stopped absorbing information a long time ago.. You need to get over yourself... I see it as embarrassing that you will claim this collossal intelligence and miss so many fundamentals that my 8 year old daughter could discern... Intelligence without the ability to reason is worthless!!!

.

 And i might add, your thinly veiled hatred for America becomes evident in your bias... Just to let you know, we're paying attention, wouldn't want you to think we don't care...ROFL!!!![/color][/quote]

Hmmm... Where to start?

Well look, first off, I don't want this to be one of my usual rambling screeds. Apart from anything else, I haven't really got the Time; but I do feel an obligation to respond to you Steelhed. But perhaps more importantly, I feel that one of the reasons why you may have misunderstood or misconceived my position, is because the length and style of my posts often mean that the points I am making, are not immediately apparent.

So whilst I can't guarantee I will be successful, I will make a commitment to you now Steelhed, that I'll try and keep this response to you as clear and succinct as I can manage.

The above, by the way Steel', is what it looks like when someone takes responsibility for their own shortcomings, rather than trying to shift the focus of criticism onto someone or something else... And one thing you should know about me Steelhed, is that I'm HEAVILY into Personal Responsibility.

Right then.

I live and work in London, England, have done for most of my Life. I'm also fairly well travelled, and have spent time in countries like Egypt and Turkey, as well as Muslim countries in South East Asia. I've also spent a fair bit of time in your country: I worked in Atlanta during the 1996 Olympics; and I had a 2 year relationship with a girl who lived in Washington D.C., spent a lot of time in New York City, and eventually moved to Aspen in Colorado (she lives in Chicago now, and we're still on friendly terms).

Now if there is one thing that my travels have taught me, it is that there really is no difference between Human Beings who live in the United States, North Africa, the Middle East, or the Indian Ocean. I've also learned that there is, in fact, no difference between politicians in any corner of the World either. And if I tell you that my work in London brings me into daily contact with the British Central Government, you will perhaps take it as a sincere and heartfelt statement, when I say that the only "people" I really despise, are politicians.

Not specific political personalities mind you. I have no greater opinion about the personalities of George W. Bush, Tony Blair, Hosni Mubarak, or Osama bin Laden, than I do about common or garden variety slugs. These "personalities" are, at best, [b]*AND*[/b] at worst, merely distractions from the important business of Life.

And I can assure that I don't hate America, or Americans, because sincerely, I don't recognise the State of America, any more than I recognise the State of Israel, the State of the United Kingdom, or the State of Saudi Arabia. As far as I am concerned, Nation States are merely anachronistic leftovers from the days of Medieval Feudalism.

Humans are a single species, and they live on a single Planet. National boundaries are merely abstract concepts, used by power-hungry politicians, to demarcate their zones of power and authority. And it's not as if many politicians these days respect even these limits; Nationalism and the idea of Nationhood are solely devices to keep Humans in more easily controlled and defined groups - or cattle-pens perhaps.

I do see many [b]*MAJOR*[/b] problems with the Systems of Government that Humans use; and right now, I see no more flawed a Government, than the current Government of the United States.

Now one of the issues you have with me Steelhed, if I may be so bold, is that not unlike many around here - not least that prick SomeGuy - is that you have a tendency to read into my posts, [b]*WHAT YOU WANT TO READ*[/b], not always what I've actually written. Look at the tone of your post above: it has a high Emotional content; it is full of negative energy, and a resentment and hostility that can't possibly have been generated solely by me. As with others on =PBF=, it is your own Emotional disposition that decides I am "Against You", and that dictates how you perceive what I write.

Mad Cat, by contrast, is able to exercise a high degree of control over his Emotions. He is passionate, writes with conviction, and defends his principles with alacrity. Even when repeatedly demeaned and vilified by others, he doesn't lose his cool, or allow his Emotions to limit his ability to perceive Reality.

In other words: he keeps his Cool.

As do I, generally speaking.

But here at least, Steelhed, you are not managing to maintain your composure.

Now Mad Cat and I have widely differing opinions about how we feel about the People and Societies we share our Planet with. Where Mad Cat believes in harsh punishment for offenders against the Law, and his Morality; I believe in compassion and understanding, and taking responsibility for my own Society's complicity in creating Human Monsters, or at least allowing them to flourish. I believe in a World United by the common bond of Humanity; whereas Mad Cat believes that the Communities of the World should all fend for themselves (though we both believe that Individual Cultures and Nations should mind their own business, and not go poking about in others').

But whilst Mad Cat and I have very different social and political ideologies, we share a common bond in the Awareness of our own Individualism; and that taking Responsibility for things begins with taking Responsibility for One's own actions.

Now if you could allow yourself to set aside your Emotionality for a moment, you would be able to see that neither Mad Cat, Deanna, nor I, are in anyway supporting or approving of the treatment of the girl in Saudi Arabia, or the British teacher in Sudan. We are all three of us merely articulating the Principle of the Rule of Law.

I go a stage further though, and propose the Idea that just as soon as All Humanity unites in at least a Legal Union, and acknowledges basic and essential Human Rights as the sacrosanct foundation of International Law; the sooner we can bring an end to the kind of barbarity we see in the Islamic World. Though to be fair, that isn't all that far removed from what Mad Cat is saying either: that if the United States of America first respected International Law in its Foreign Policies, then it might just have a little more moral authority, when it comes to criticising the way other Societies and Cultures choose to conduct themselves.

Where Mad Cat and I are in full agreement, is in the understanding that the continual and illegal interference by the United States, in the affairs of other Sovereign Nations, is more often than not the contributing factor that prevents many Societies embracing 21st Century Civilisation.

The despotic regime that continues to rule Saudi Arabia, for example, remains in power primarily because of the diplomatic and economic protection afforded it by (amongst others) successive U.S. Governments. And this protection is provided for just one, startlingly obvious reason: oil.

Furthermore, Americans desire for a dependable and cheap supply of oil, to fuel their gas guzzling cars, [b]*ALSO*[/b] funds the ability of the Saudi Arabian "Royal Family" to maintain its Wahhabist rule and oppression in Arabia.

And finally, the way that the United States repeatedly and freely threatens oil-rich Middle Eastern Nations, undoubtedly ensures that hard-line elements in Islamic Society continue to dominate Arab and other Nations in Asia and Africa.

Humans can be very frightened creatures; and when afraid, are capable of committing and supporting the most fearsome policies and actions.

America's constant threats to Iran do nothing less than bolster the popularity and rule of unpredictable leaders like President Ahmadinejad.

Can you imagine how Ahmadinejad's rhetoric would have to change if the United States was threatening to bombard Tehran with food and medical supplies, rather than nuclear weapons? Can you imagine how long radical interpretations of Islam would hold sway in desperately poor countries like Sudan, if countries in the West cancelled Third World debt, actually delivered on promises of aid, and supported the many NGO's trying to build a better Life for Humans in Cultures more primitive than our own?

My criticism of your expressed opinion Steelhed, is that you personally, patriotically and culturally, ignore your own Personal Responsibility for the continuation of primitive and barbaric policies within Islamic Cultures, and to a lesser extent, your own government's responsibility in maintaining harsh regimes in the Middle East, and at the least, doing nothing [b]*CONSTRUCTIVE*[/b] to help these Culture's adapt to 21st Century norms. (I can't fault the Bush Administration's many [b]*DESTRUCTIVE*[/b] attempts to, uh, "help"...)

How much money do you give the current Saudi Arabian Regime out of your own wage packet Steelhed? Do you even know how much? How much money do you spend on gasoline every week?

Challenging questions, aren't they? Not as easy to answer them, as it is to castigate a backward and primitive Society for, uh, being backward and primitive.

When we can't accept responsibility for our own complicity in these barbaric events, it is much easier to just shit down on those who, let's face it, can't really be expected to know any better: what with them not being able to enjoy the benefits provided to us by "sophisticated" Western "Civilisation" and all...

And yet, behaving primitively towards already primitive Societies and Cultures never seems to improve matters, does it? It just seems to make us feel more frustrated and helpless. And of course: REAL angry.

Now I get angry too Steelhed - I really [b]*DON'T*[/b] think I am Holier-than-Thou - but I don't allow my anger to disrupt or demean my intellectual apparatus. I don't allow my Emotions to hinder my rationality, or reduce my ability to identify solutions to these on-going problems.

And, I really have never seen the point in getting angry at those who really, really - [b]*CLEARLY*[/b] - don't know any better. But whilst I try not to direct my anger at those of us who SHOULD know better, and who are in a much better position to effect Positive Change, I don't always manage to restrain my Self. But when I find my anger getting the better of me, I just stop doing whatever I'm doing, and try to figure out what it is that is making me so angry.

And in that pause: find my way back to Personal Responsibility.

That is the only Truth I really care about; and it is with that Truth, that I have conquered the Universe.

Peace