Since Iran is not currently attacking either the United States of America, or Israel, how does the US "justification" for attacking Iran differ from Nazi Germany's "justification" for attacking Poland and starting World War Two, 68 years ago today?

The rationale that Hitler used was one of "Preventive War" - or "War to stop War".

This rationale goes beyond a pre-emptive strike on a force amassing to attack you - like  the Six Day War fought by Israel against the Arab States, in 1967. "Preventive War" seeks to attack another force, before it can even become a real threat.

All that is required is that the force engaged in attacking "preventively", demonstrates to its citizens, the motive and intent of the force that "must" be attacked "preventively".

If that force can be linked to possible crimes or offences, such as the Gleiwitz Incident, or the Gulf of Tonkin, or the "supply of sophisticated [sic] weapons by Iran to forces fighting the U.S. in Iraq", then all to the good. But if not, no problem: the scale of the threat can be increased beyond all plausible boundaries.

The German People were sufficiently convinced that Poland was a threat to it in 1939, that they approved of and contributed to a "Preventive" attack on Poland. American People were sufficiently convinced of the threat to their Peace and Security, posed by the North Vietnamese Army, the Viet Minh, and Ho Chi Minh, that they supported a War between the World's Greatest Military-Industrial Machine, and a rather poor, agrarian, South East Asian Nation.

That went on for 10 years, killing 59,000 Americans, and more than 3 million South East Asians.

But it was a "PREVENTIVE" War; a War designed to shore-up the bulwarks of American decency and values. And therefore, it needed to be fought. Even - ESPECIALLY? - when no-one else thought it should be fought...

The idea of attacking Iran, is based on the idea that Iran currently presents an existential threat to the State of Israel; and also to U.S. National Security and interests.

The justification is that Iran must be attacked FIRST; before it is even in a position to COMMIT the crime it stands accused of.

The paradox of course - as any fan of Kafka will note - is that attacking Iran before it commits a crime, doesn't actually allow Iran the chance to do anything, uh, criminal...

It's all rather dodgy ground, I'm afraid...

The purpose of the "Preventive War" is to, uh, prevent "THE Crime" being committed in the first place... And punish the potential perpetrators merely for demonstrating the intent and/or motive to even contemplate committing it.

"Preventive War" was described by the Nuremburg Commission as the "Supreme War Crime", since it is father and mother to all other War Crimes.

The "Crime" in Hitler's case, was the very real threat of "Mighty Poland", invading the military-industrial superpower that was Nazi Germany in 1939...

Implausible though it sounded to most, it was made plausible to the German People through a sequence of orchestrated events, Operation Himmler. These events mirrored a propaganda campaign run by Josef Goebbels, to convince the German People that an Invasion of Poland was absolutely necessary, in order to prevent a Polish Invasion of Germany.

Nobody outside Germany took seriously, the idea that Poland was a threat to Germany; and certainly not so great a threat to Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia, that those two colossal powers need form a mutual defence pact against a nation they more or less swallowed in one gulp, when it came down to it.

Poland was NOT a threat to Nazi Germany or Soviet Russia.

It was clear to all but the ordinary German and Russian, that such machinations were merely Hitler's and Stalin's ploy, to carve up Poland between them.

An orchestrated propaganda campaign was able to convince a sufficient number of Germans and Russians, that Poland WAS a threat, thus facilitating the Invasion of Poland by Nazi and Soviet forces, on the 1st September, 1939; and starting World War Two on the 3rd September.

The nation of North Vietnam was NOT a threat to the United States of America, in 1964, nor to any U.S. interests in the region. The southward spread of Communism was bulwarked up against the twin oppositions of Right Wing Militarism, and Islam, in Indonesia and Malaysia. China to the North was already Communist; and countries like Thailand, Laos and Cambodia, played little part in the Economy of the United States, nor seem inclined - then or now - towards the kind of Communism that Americans liked to get hysterical about in the 50's and 60's.

A client state in South-East Asia though, a potential military base abutting the People's Republic of China, would have been a nice, geo-strategic compliment to the DMZ in South Korea, as far as the United States must have been concerned. Either way, it must have been worth something to successive U.S. Administrations, since they fought tooth and nail over it, expending a LOT of treasure, and immeasurable amounts of blood.

The "Gulf of Tonkin" incident was used to get the U.S. Public behind the initial engagement; and then the number of U.S. lives already sacrificed, was used to keep people behind the War. But at no point, throughout the carnage in South East Asia, was the United States, or any of its extant Global interests, threatened by anyone from North Vietnam.

In 2003, the Bush Administration hi-jacked public sentiment about 9/11, to propel forward its pre-9/11 vision of a world dominated by U.S. Hegemony: the so-called "Project for a New American Century".

The Bush Administration completed the first practical stage of the Project for a New American Century, by invading Iraq, and ousting Saddam Hussein.

The Bush Administration facilitated the Invasion, with manufactured domestic support, and through that process, lost all meaningful foreign support.

Saddam Hussein's Iraq was presented as a clear and present danger to the national security of the United States of America; when clearly, as events have transpired, he was not even CLOSE to that assessment. Only a sufficient majority of Americans believed that they were in any direct danger from Saddam Hussein.

And what was promised to be a "Cakewalk War", still rages more than four years after the U.S. Commander-in-Chief, declared "Mission Accomplished", and an end to major combat operations.

And now, in 2007, the Bush Administration is orchestrating a re-run of the Iraq propaganda campaign, to get the U.S. Public behind an attack on Iran.

The purpose of releasing (allowing to be released/causing to be released) your plans of how you are going to invade another country, is to test the reaction of your citizens to the idea. If you really intend to invade another country to eliminate an actual and identified threat, then you keep your mouth shut. If it is going to be an offensive invasion, against a threatening force, then surprise confers a major advantage. You certainly try not to put your opponent on the defensive; not if he's a credible opponent for you in the first place. You wouldn't, for instance, give him any unnecessary reason to accelerate his weapons development programme.

Only if it is an opponent that actually, in Truth, represents no significant threat at all, do you have the leisure to test and conduct a propaganda campaign against your domestic citizens: citizens whose support is vital for what is clearly not a War of obvious necessity.

Wars are very, very difficult to start; but once started, they take on a life (and take a lot of life) of their own, and are impossible to control.

The Islamic Republic of Iran presents no immediate threat or danger, to the United States of America, the State of Israel, or any of their People.

The United States and Israel repeatedly threatens Iran, and excites agitation and considerable fear amongst the human beings living in Iran.

This agitation and fear will NOT express itself as abject capitulation and surrender on the part of the Iranian People; no matter how nuclear-tipped the threats from Israel and the U.S.

This agitation and fear WILL express itself as violence and hostility towards the United States of America, and its interests around the World. U.S. threats against Iran WILL result in many Iranians supporting their Shia brethren across the border in Iraq.

Eventually, a hardcore clique of Iranian ultra-nationalists and ultra-fanaticals will break free of their restraints, the provocations too hard to bear: and the U.S. and Israel will have their casus belli.

Or if not, such an incident can be easily staged.

And when that incident occurs, amidst all the rancour and debate about who really DID do it, will be lost, the memory of all those outrageous U.S. and Israeli threats that rained down on Iran, in the months and years running up to it. Threats which any one of us would have responded to - or forced our government to respond to - had they been made, incessantly, relentlessly, and against all decency, to us and our People.

And I suspect that lost too, will be the conversation about an attack on Iran only taking three days...

Peace