In Reply To #31

The point is Rafsanjani is often billed as one of the "moderates" who can reign in Ahmadejijad and the Mullah nutters in Iran - yet this "moderate" is still calling for the nuking of Israel.

And once again, you simply dismiss the Iranian's own public statements to translation or perception errors.

Rafasanjani was not talking about MAD, he was talking about how Israel is a "one bomb state" and how the Muslim world can absorb many nukes.

Not a translation error: a perception error.

You're wilfully failing to perceive what is obvious to anyone reading the following, who isn't a paranoid threat-seeker:

If a day comes when the world of Islam is duly equipped with the arms Israel has in possession, the strategy of colonialism would face a stalemate because application of an atomic bomb would not leave any thing in Israel but the same thing would just produce damages in the Muslim world", Ayatollah Ali Akbar Hashemi-Rafsanjani told the crowd at the traditional Friday prayers in Tehran

It's not a question of translation Foota: it's mostly a matter of comprehension.

It is YOU who is deliberately trying to perceive the demonstration of intent in the statement, that backs your position.

There is no such demonstration.

Rather, Rafsanjani is talking about the "Stale-mate" that would be achieved with Israel, as the result of an Islamic nuke.

How Israel would no longer be able to threaten the Islamic World with nuclear weapons, with impunity.

Any nuclear attack by Israel on an Islamic country, would invite nuclear retaliation against Israel, with the Islamic Bomb.

Since there are only 14 million Jews in the World, and some 1.2 billion Muslims; Rafsanjani notes that the Islamic World could easily accommodate an Israeli Jewish attack. Since even if one Muslim was killed by an Israeli nuke, for every Israeli killed by an Islamic nuke: the Israelis would run out of people long before the Muslim World did.

Was his point.

But you **WILL NOT** allow yourself to see that.

Instead, you'd rather try and stretch out the thinnest and most tenuous basis for suspicion of intent; into the wildest and most lurid allegations of a Nuclear Holocaust of Jews by Iran.

You're really looking rather foolish right now Foota.

Seriously.

Peace