In Reply To #25

In Reply To #23

Americans see - have been taught to see - Iranian President Ahmadinejad as a cartoon figure of hatred; head of an untrustworthy and ideologically opposed Society; which seeks to threaten and destroy the American (& Israeli) Way of Life.

In fact, President Ahmadinejad is not the Chief Executive of Iran; merely a Constitutional Head of State, with as much geo-political and diplomatic clout as the President of Ireland.

You are correct that Ahmadejijad is a figurehead to Mullahs.

Lets examine what the "moderate" Rafsanjani says about nuking Israel:

This would be the same Rafsanjani who is a rival for Ahmadinejad's job - who in fact held Ahmadinejad's job from 1989 - 1997 - and who lost out to Ahmadinejad at his attempt for a third term? A rival to Ahmadinejad, who regularly denounces the current Iranian President for his loutish behaviour on the International Stage; and his mishandling of domestic Iranian Economics - the President of Iran's only practical bureaucratic function within the Iranian Government.

In other words: Less posturing on the International Stage; and more focus on domestic affairs.

Sound familiar?

Anyway, my point was that the Presidency of Iran is largely a ceremonial, and entirely bureaucratic position; and that the Real Power in Iran, is vested in the Grand Ayatollah, who carries the Religious and Devotional Respect of Iranian Shia Muslims.

What was your point?

You brought up a speech by a politician ousted from a ceremonial and bureaucratic position.

In Reply To #25

"***If*** a day comes when the world of Islam is duly equipped with the arms Israel has in possession, the strategy of colonialism would face a stalemate because application of an atomic bomb would not leave any thing in Israel but the same thing would just produce damages in the Muslim world", Ayatollah Ali Akbar Hashemi-Rafsanjani told the crowd at the traditional Friday prayers in Tehran.

He is talking about Mutually Assured Destruction Foota.

M.A.D., isn't it?

He's not talking about wiping Israel off anyone's maps; he is saying that *IF* the day comes when someone in the Islamic World is equipped with a nuke; then Israel's strategy of colonising Islamic Land would face a stalemate.

M.A.D.-ness would see to that.

Your real problem here Foota, is the paucity of propaganda you have to work with.

As with the "Homosexual" hangings, if the Iranians were enacting the kind of policies the United States is trying to whip up fear about them doing, there would simply be much more evidence.

You can't rely on a couple of out-of-context and poorly translated quotes, to justify the claim that it is the intended policy of the Iranian Government, to acquire nuclear weapons, and immediately wipe out Israel.

You just can't Foota.

If wiping Israel "off the map" was the intentional policy of the current Iranian Government; we'd have heard more than just a couple of contorted gaffes.

If the Iranian Government's insistent diplomatic stance is that it is doing no wrong, and intends to do no wrong, and is willing to be inspected to demonstrate that it intends to do no wrong: then that is what we must take at face value, until or unless evidence contradictory to that position emerges.

And who but an idiot could believe that if such evidence existed, the U.S. Government would not have produced it and used it by now?

Last time around, the U.S. Government managed to produce concrete and certain proof of something that it became subsequently clear, was never fucking there.

Because of that, the U.S. Government of George Bush, has diplomatically and actually blown its credibility.

Nobody trusts the United States any more; and no-one has any real reason to mistrust the Iranian Government, other than to acknowledge the desperate pressure that the U.S. is putting it under.

If you or your Government would like to see the Entire World Population erupt with Anti-American Sentiment: support the Bush Administration's drive to War with Iran.

But of course, you don't; which begs the question, why are we even talking about the Iran Situation - and the latest Bogey-man of the Week?

You don't support military intervention in Iran; therefore you favour a diplomatic and Peaceful solution to the current U.S.-Iran tensions.

Unless or until further evidence comes to Light, of course. :)

Or, no diplomatic and Peaceful solution can find consensus, meaning that the United States will once again have to consider the moral imperative of "Going It Alone": in which case you'd continue to support the Bush Administration.

As the Entire World erupts around you.

Which of course, shouldn't happen: it's mostly just bluster, right Foota?

No, strikes me that the more important dialogue that the U.S. Body Politic should be having with itself right now, is an internal dialogue about the sorry state of the U.S. Economy.

And about how you've all been suckered into a "Bait-and-Switch", to focus on Iraq and Iran, while some very highly placed crooks, cleaned out the American Economy.

That's what I'd be talking about, right now, if I were American.

Peace