In Reply To #24

In Reply To #23

I have serious doubts that Israel will ever go bankrupt or even suffer from a major depression anymore. Haven't you noticed the explosive economic growth of Israel over the last few years?

{snip}

Things are really looking up for Israel lately. They no longer rely on us as they did in the past.

I don't think that the Israeli economy as it stands at the moment, is in anything like the precarious state of the U.S. economy; for all the reasons you gave.

However, if Israel were to launch an unprovoked assault on Iran - coming so soon after its unprovoked assault on Lebanon last year - then we would quickly see the International Community relegate Israel to Pariah status (a position it flirts with at the best of times anyway).

If Israel decides to go it alone with an attack on Iran, then it will do so only because it has lost the political (and probably economic) support of the United States. If and when Israel loses U.S. support, it will probably be for one of three main reasons:

• The U.S. is no longer politically and economically of supporting Israel

• Israel's increasing economic strength will mean that Israelis can choose to reduce its ties with the U.S.

• Israel does something so diplomatically and morally egregious, that the United States is compelled to sever its ties with Israel.

Or it could be all three.

Point is that once cut-off from U.S. support and protection, Israel would not be able to defend itself diplomatically and economically from the sanctions that an outraged World would impose on Israel, following any attack on Iran.

The recent Israeli foray into Syrian air-space, and possible attack, has all the hallmarks of the Israeli Government testing domestic and World opinion on greater military action.

This because the alleged Israeli incursion occurred simultaneously to Israel welcoming Syria to U.S. sponsored "Peace Talks"; talks that everyone optimistically predicts could bring about the return of the Golan Heights to Syria.

Chances are that the Israeli run into Syria was most probably an attempt to show the Syrians that the Israelis are still in charge, in advance of the Peace Talks.

If Israel loses its U.S. provided diplomatic, economic and military support; then it will likely turn to the European Union, along with its Islamic ally in the region, Turkey.

Israel is considered to be culturally, a European off-shoot anyway. Israel participates in many European sporting and recreational competitions.

Joining the European Union, and the Euro Currency, is the most obvious move for Israel, when the U.S. Dollar collapses.

But as with Turkey, the Europeans will expect the Israelis to dramatically improve their standards of Human Rights; and Israel will be compelled to demonstrate compliance with European diplomatic, political and military sensibilities, before it can stand a chance of being accepted into the E.U.

Point is that without U.S. cover, Israel is just another belligerent Middle Eastern nation; defined as yet another Abrahamic Theocracy; and governed by people who passionately believe that God/YHWH/Allah promised the Land between the Nile and the Euphrates, to them, and them alone.

Such thoughts will soon be fucked right of out of Tel Aviv, as soon as the U.S. diplomatic, military and economic cover is blown.

If Israel tries to pull any of the shit it has been doing for the last 40 years, without the cover afforded it by the U.S.; it will find itself very isolated from and sanctioned by the International Community.

And believe it or not, the number of Israelis, inside and outside of the Government, who actually want to attack Iran (or Syria), is about the same proportion as the number of Americans who believe that attacking Iran is the Right Thing to Do.

So I have faith in the Israelis.

Despite being a Theocracy, Israelis are a lot more pragmatic and realistic than Bush Administration supporters in the U.S.

In Reply To #25

In Reply To #23

Good reply.

I don't suppose there's any chance of you converting to Shia Islam, emigrating to Iran and standing for office is there?

I think there's more chance of me converting to Americanism, and going and sorting out their shit first Sid.

It's a question of Triage. :)

Peace