In Reply To #11

In Reply To #10

Britain, the U.S., and pretty much every western nation does not allow for institutionalized discrimination.  Tell me Holyman, does your nation fight to break prejudice?  I know my nation does.  How many laws have been passed to try to make it harder for racists to discriminate?  It's hard to break something as base as racism but we're trying, Iran went the other direction so don't try to compare them to us.

OK.

WHO is talking about institutionalised discrimination?

The Iranian Jews are not; they merely say they are treated like Second-Class citizens.

An all too-common enough term in the West I'm afraid SJ.

*I* am 2nd-class; YOU are 2nd-class; most of the other people on this forum are 2nd-class citizens of whatever "Nation" or Society they "belong" to. Several of our forum members are clearly 3rd and in a couple of cases, 4th-class citizens.

And such levels of social citizenship are usually based on cutlure ethnicity; and at the upper-tiers, are usually self-sustaining and self-policed.

Would you agree that throughout History, many Jewish people have been discriminated against, by the Society they lived amongst, because of their religio-cultural heritage?

Of course you would.

If any society knows a thing or two about being treated as 2nd-class citizens (at least), it is the Jews. And as a consequence, Jewish social culture is sensitive to external threats and depredations.

The Iranian Jews are saying that Life in Iran for Jews, is no different to life in virtually every other part of the World outside of Israel and particular areas of the United States.

And they are saying they are cool with that.

Think of it this way.

Let's say you and your family had been living in the same building in a working-class neighbourhood for more generations than anyone can remember.

You are content.

You don't have much, but what you have, you value. What you value most highly are your roots: your family, your friends, your neighbours. In your neighbourhood, everyone knows you and you know everyone, and you're pretty much as content as you feel you need to be.

Now, the first thing that happens to disturb this idyll, is that *I* decide I want to buy up ALL the land within a 40-block radius of your home - pretty much the whole fucking neighbourhood.

The reason *I* have decided to buy up your neighbourhood - at least, gain complete if not total control over it - is that because from my much higher position up the social spectrum than you, *I* can see just how valuable the Land your neighbourhood is built on, is going to be, in a relatively short amount of Time.

Now, it's not a done deal, because *I* still have to overcome the petty restrictions and obstacles that obscure pieces of legislation put in the way of my ambitions.

Now fortunately, because of just how high *I* AM above you on the Social Order of Things (your relative position in this scenario would be triple-figured-th), you can assume that *I*, don't have to obey any pieces of legislation I don't care to.

The ONLY thing *I* have to worry about, in my plans to turn your neighbourhood into a Cash-Themed Park, is you and the rest of the scruffy residents of the slums your families have called Home for generations.

Now since *I* don't have to obey any Laws *I* don't care to, I could, if I wanted to, just exterminate the lot of you. With the press of a few buttons, I would not only take care of the human residency issue, I'd also accomplish pretty much all of the demolition work I'd need to do. Of course, I might take a bit of flack from my competitors, for unfair business tactics, but I'm pretty sure *I* can weather it.

I mean, what are they going to do about it if they don't like it? :)

Alright, that's the bravado. The Truth is that at the moment, my being too aggressive or excessive - particularly in light of the disaster my last attempt at doing this created - might NOT be tolerated by my competitors.

But nevertheless, that's between me and my competitors, I still need you lot out of my way, and it's *always* a good idea to make your opposition believe you aren't ruling out *any* options. :)

There is however a slight problem with my convincing my competitors that you and your neighbourhood represent a grave and dire threat to my personal security.

And that is that my grand-parents still live in the neighbourhood.

Not only does this make the use of indiscriminate weapons somewhat tricky to sell, it makes selling the "Threat" issue at home that much harder.

It's hard enough convincing my Self and trying to convince my closest competitors that you and your neighbourhood represent an existential threat to me and my kind. But when my grand-parents keep sending me postcards to tell me to "Stop all that Nonsense at Once!", it somewhat undermines my case.

You see, in your neighbourhood, your much closer and more personal social concerns, creates a neighbourhood culture that supersedes all national, ethnic, religious, cultures. You recognise and interrelate with the person who runs the store across the street from you, because he is a part of your local community; not because of his ethnicity or religion.

Don't you?

From the perspective of the Iranian Jews, the government and fabric of Israeli Society has been dominated by a hardcore clique of extremists, conflating the most immoderate and archaic aspects of Judaism, with common-or-garden military expansionism.

The SOLE justification extant that Iran is a threat, is that Iran is pursuing a nuclear weapons capability, and as soon as it gets that capability, the government of Iran will immediately launch whatever weapons it has, at Israel; killing not only many Jews, but demographically, many, many more Muslims; and inviting instantaneous annihilation for the entire Population, Geography and State of Iran (from the Map of the World).

As unlikely and implausible as this sounds to any objective observer; it IS the SOLE premise on which anti-Iranian rhetoric is based in the Israeli and American media.

Nothing else.

The Iranian Jews are not saying that the Israeli Zionists won't get what they want. As considerably more venerable members of the Jewish Faith, they understand full well what extents extremist Zionists will go to, to get what they want.

But they ARE saying that the entire premise that Iran poses an imminent and existential threat to the State of Israel, and/or Jews Everywhere: is a hoax trying to be perpetuated by elements within the Israeli and US Governments who see Iran as the TRULY Strategic key to controlling the Middle East.

I'm not a Jew SJ, I'm objective, and I really don't have a favourite in this Race.

But I do possess a modicum of rational intelligence, and a huge dollop of Emotional Intelligence. And I'm afraid to say that what the Iranian Jews are saying, just sounds so much more sensible, much less hysterical, and a whole lot more believable, than what the US and Israeli governments are saying about Iran.

I don't know SJ, on the one hand you've got representatives of your Faith who have been living essentially the same way for 3 millennia, in integrated harmony with those in their local Community, regardless of the cultural tides; and on the other, representatives who survived the horrific pressure your Community was put under during World War Two, born out of bloody chaos and tragedy not sixty years ago, fighting anyone and anything that looks at them the wrong way.

I got to go with age and wisdom on this one.

At least until more compelling evidence come to Light. :)

Peace