In Reply To #108

In Reply To #93

And Foota, I've said this to you on SO many occasions..:

Who around here is trying to defend the governments of Russia and China?

Answer: No-one.

You are.

You defend Russia and China's policies by saying that American policies are the most despised on the planet.

Hah! Classic! :)

Wow! C'mon Foota, admit that was written in a fit of pique: you don't really mean that?

Because I identify the United States as having the "most despised" policies on the planet: I'm DEFENDING Russia and China's policies?

Heh. :)

Alright. Look:

The current governments of Russia and China, mm' kay, are like really uncool, mm'kay?

Oh the things those Russians and Chinese get up to, well, it's enough to make a good Protestant Imperialist blush!

Human Rights? Hah! What do the Russian and Chinese governments know about Human Rights? There both happy to waste their time developing strong and healthy economies, and building a stable, long-term foundation for their Society's prosperity - sorry - enriching themselves personally, at the expense of their People.

Gordon blimey, it didn't ought to be allowed...

There! That good enough for you Foota? Want to argue or debate any of the points I've raised?

Want to suggest that my overall conclusions - that the governments of Russia and China are self-serving and corrupt bastards - are based on a flawed analysis of the available information?

Do you want to have a three-year long conversation about why the Russian and Chinese governments may NOT be self-serving criminals, corrupting the fabric of their respective societies?

Ready when you are.

Now then, In the Grand Scheme of Things, I consider my ability to exercise my minute and seemingly insignificant influence, in a way that contributes as positively as possible, to the progression and good order of the Grand Scheme of Things.

I assess my ability to engage with Russian, Mandarin and Cantonese speakers to be severely restricted, compared to my ability to engage with supporters of that other Great Power, the United States of America.

I like to believe, in my quieter moments, that somewhere in Moscow, or St. Petersburg, there is a Russian Holyman patiently typing out thoughtful words to all the Russian Foota supporters of the current Russian Government. Perhaps in Beijing, a Chinese Holyman and a Chinese Foota...

I let those guys do what they are good at, whilst I get on with what *I* am good at. :)

I see a blinkered statement like that and think - gee if we are the "most despised" on earth that means people must think the policies of Russia and China are somehow superior.  Otherwise we can not be the most despised.  Maybe the 3rd or 4th most despised.

Ouch.

Yes, I can see how painful it must be to think like that.

Alright, try this:

Instead of seeing the statement as an indication that people must be thinking that Russia and China are somehow considered superior to the United States; try to see it as an indicator that people might be thinking simply that they consider the governments of Russia and China a less immediate threat to World Peace and Security, than the current government of the United States.

Does that sit any better?

I have no doubt that America is unpopular.  But I believe there is much more to it then simply the toppling of a genocidal dictator (with a long history of UN violations).

There is a major component of an infantile inferiority complex along with a good dose of envy.  Unhealthy vices to be sure....

I'm sorry Foota, but your basic psychology compels you to identify your own weaknesses in others.

Whatever the cause of the problem though, I'm glad you acknowledge there is one: that is always the First Step.

Direct Questions for you Foota:

You have already said that you do not support a U.S. attack on Iran.

How do you feel about the Bush Administration repeatedly threatening Iran with an attack?

I love it.

I guess I need to clarify my Iran position.  I do not favor an invasion of Iran.  But would not object with punitive raids against their training camps and 1 oil refinery if Iran continues to try and destabilize Iraq with radical Shiism and death squads.

Killing US troops working as peacekeepers with a United Nations Mandate comes with consequences.

Should those consequences be determined by the United Nations, whose mandate the U.S. troops are working with?

Or should they be determined and applied unilaterally by the Bush Administration, with no recourse to the United Nations, the U.S. Congress, or the People of the United States?

Just what exactly do you believe the U.S. could do now, to try and recover some of the respect it used to enjoy, from some if not all of the Nations of the World?Peace

We "used to enjoy"?  When?

For cripes sakes Holyman, you are old enough to remember all of the rancor against America during the 1980's as Reagan was "repeatedly threatening" the Communists.

Yup.

And old enough to remember and have personally experienced the relaxed and happy times America enjoyed during the Clinton Administration, and following the end of the Cold War.

And I can assure you Foota that on whatever arbitrary scale I am using to quantify U.S. relations with the World, the Clinton Era was enjoyed by many people around the World, not just Americans.

The Birth of the Internet for fuck's sake: that should have been plenty to keep minds occupied. It certainly facilitated many ways to enjoy one's Self. :)

Of course things weren't perfect Foota, but I'm not doing a comparative analysis of specific incidents that occurred under successive U.S. Administrations: I'm talking about the general mood and level of feeling the Rest of the World had for the U.S.

And I'm afraid to say that watching the spectacle of watching Clinton get caught with his pants down, was a whole lot more enjoyable and edifying, than the show being put on by the Boy-Who-Would-Be-King Bush.

Sorry mate: there is no other way to spin it.

Right now, the United States of America IS seen as the GREATEST threat to World Peace and Security.

Whilst I've formed and expressed my opinion around that statement, it is actually as close to being fact as any statistical assessment of global opinion can be.

http://pewglobal.org/reports/display.php?ReportID=252

But what do statisticians know, eh Foota?

Try not to read anything in that report in a way that aggravates your - what did you call it? - "an infantile inferiority complex along with a good dose of envy".

It's not that the Rest of the World doesn't really Love the United States - well, no more or less than it collectively Loves any single nation. It's just that the Rest of the World would really rather you stopped blundering about the Middle East, spreading mayhem and chaos, and threatening to destabilise and destroy the very fabric of 21st Century Human Society.

That's all.

It's nothing Personal.

Peace