In Reply To #26

In Reply To #23

Holyman wrote:

For anyone still using their common sense (i.e. the Europeans and ANZAC's around here) that is.

I'd just like to point out that while I love this country (Australia). I don't think Australia and New Zealand's take on this is anywhere close.

When Australia gets a decent government with balls of its own. Then maybe we could be grouped together again as 'ANZAC's'.

As it stands. The Bush administration says jump. And the Howard government asks 'How high?'

It gives me the shits that again and again the Howard government abuses the ANZAC name by allowing the rest of the world to think that Australia and NZ are together in this.

I hope you're not supposing it has been any different in the U.K. under Tony Blair, than it has been in Australia under Howard.

Blair's unequivocal alliance with Bush was an embarrassment to British People that only further severed ties of Political Association amongst the Middle Class. Simply being associated with politics these days, is enough to get you struck off most peoples' party-invitation lists.

You certainly don't talk about what an embarrassment British Politics has become, in polite company.

The Right-Wing European Hot-seat, side-by-side with the U.S.G., recently vacated with some undignified haste by Gordon Brown, has now been leapt into with eager glee, by the Frenchman, Nicolas Sarkozy.

The Frenchman must see rewards in that position that the Scotsman could not...

And there is nothing British Society likes gossiping about more, than the pratfalls of French Society.

Gordon Brown looks like he might plausibly do a John Major, and just get on with the fucking job. Like John Major, he'll need his attention focused on practicality, rather than popularity. This because the U.K. Economy has now begun its descent into an Economic Cycle every bit as recessionary as that faced by Major, at the end of the Thatcher years.

(Last time there was a Cowboy running the American Government.)

P.s Onya Holyman! Good to see another thought provoking topic in a World gone bland!

bigthumb