In Reply To #52

As I have said numerous times, I have never advocated for an invasion of Iran.  But please don't pretend that Iran is not "currently attacking" American troops who are working in Iraq under a United Nations resolution.

What about Iran's hijacking and humiliation of your British Sailors?  Was that not an attack, or are you like TED and believe that your boys and girls were in the wrong and in Iranian territorial waters?

Oh please Foota.

If Mexico turned into a Hell-on-Earth like Iraq, you'd be indignant if the U.S. and State of California didn't do something to buttress whatever was going on south of the border.

The United States of America invaded Iraq, WITHOUT a U.N. Mandate, or any degree of legality at all; the U.S. currently occupies Iraq and has presided over its slide into complete anarchy and civil strife; AND the U.S. keeps CONTINUALLY threatening Iran.

Now why would the Iranians NOT support their Shia brethren in Iraq, and try to slow down the build-up of U.S. troops on Iraq's borders with Iran?

If the U.S. and the British weren't in Iraq, they wouldn't have to worry about their soldiers and sailors coming in to contact with Iranians, now would they?

The U.S. is wading around the Middle East like it owns the place. It has launched incursions into Iran, just as it has into Pakistan. It surrounds Iran to the West in Iraq, the South and East in Afghanistan; and to the North in Alliance with those wonderfully democratic leaders of the 'Stans.

Iran is not attacking or threatening the U.S. or Israel; Iran IS defending its borders, and supporting their neighbouring Shia brethren in Iraq.

Come talk to me when an Iranian Naval Fleet is spotted off Cape Cod.

It is too funny reading you go on about "outrageous threats raining down on Iran" - when you have gone to great pains to excuse Ahmadinejad's Holocaust denial and threats to wipe Israel off the map merely to "translation errors".

Who said anything about "translation errors"?

I said that the SINGLE STORY, to which is attributed Iran's motive and intent to destroy Israel with nuclear weapons, is a DELIBERATE MISINTERPRETATION, carried out by the Israeli Secret Service, and posted on their MEMRI website.

On that sole and deliberate misinterpretation of what Ahmadinejad actually said in his native Farsi language, rests the sole justification for treating Iran as an imminent existential threat to Israel, that needs to be neutralised.

The United States of America, on the other hand, has not stopped threatening Iran with one form of attack or another - with "no options off the table".

So on the one hand, we have a nation, Iran, that does not currently possess nuclear weapons, but could conceivably do so in the near future - and who could blame them?; and as soon as Iran gets hold of nuclear weapons, they will be used to immediately "wipe Israel of the map".

This based on Israeli Intelligence's interpretation of the President of Iran giving a speech, where he referred to the Ayatollah Kohomeni  talking about the way that Soviet and Apartheid regimes had disappeared from the map of History, as surely would the Zionist regime of Israel.

Iran does NOT yet have nuclear weapons, but when it does have them, it will immediately use them against Israel; therefore, Iran must be attacked now, using any options available - including the nuclear option - in order to prevent this greater, wholly inevitable crime.

And on the other hand, we have a nation, the United States, which definitely DOES have a lot of nuclear weapons - and indeed, is the only nation to have ever used nuclear weapons in anger - threatening to attack Iran, possibly with those weapons, unless Iran does EXACTLY what the U.S. tells it do.

And the U.S. threatens Iran on a more or less continual basis.

What would be the reaction in the United States, if the Government of Iran leaked to its population, the plans it has for eliminating Israel, and supporting a nuclear-weapon terrorist campaign against Israel and the United States?

For one very, VERY spurious interpretation of a very nebulous statement in a foreign tongue - Ahmadinejad's "Map of History" speech for example - that you can give me; I can give you ten or more occasions on which Israel and/or the United States has directly threatened the Islamic Republic of Iran and its People.

Why should I side with the United States and Israel in this matter?

Iran presents no threat whatsoever to Israel or the United States of America right now: none whatsoever. If Iranian actions are causing U.S. soldiers to be killed in Iraq; then yet one more reason to add to a long list of reasons why the U.S. should withdraw from Iraq.

All bellicosity between the U.S. and Iran has flowed from Washington, D.C., to Tehran.

Having totally fucked up the Invasion and Occupation of Iraq, fulfilling EVERY dire prediction of EVERYONE opposed to that Invasion; the Bush Administration is now asking Americans, and the World, to once more trust them to do what is "Right for the World".

By allowing the U.S. to invade another Middle Eastern country that presents absolutely no threat whatsoever to the U.S. or Israel; and just happens to be sitting on enormous oil reserves that were last under direct U.S. control, when Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld were first part of a U.S. Presidential Administration, in the 1970's.

You can't sit this one out Foota.

If you don't agree with military action against Iran, then you can't agree with the Bush Administration's threatening actions and rhetoric against Iran: such behaviour is only going to make matters worse in Iraq and Afghanistan.

If you don't agree with military action against Iran right now, then it is because you don't believe that there is sufficient evidence to support the belief that Israel is in imminent existential danger from Iran.

Since you don't believe that there is sufficient evidence to justify an attack on Iran, at this moment in time, why do you spend time bothering to argue the authenticity of Ahmadinejad's speeches?

Is Iran an imminent threat to Israel that needs to be neutralised as soon as possible? Or is Iran merely a containable threat that can be managed relatively painlessly, whilst the mess in Iraq is sorted out?

If you lean toward the latter, then you must find the actions and words of the Bush Administration, with regard to Iran, highly irresponsible.

And if you do accept that immediate military action against Iran is not currently required, how would you go about trying to ensure it didn't become a requirement in the future?

Do you think bullying and threatening an even more proud, venerated and Conservative culture than your own, is likely to encourage them to not become a military threat in the future?

You do ask your self these sorts of questions, before you make your mind up on things, don't you Foota?

Peace