In Reply To #16

In Reply To #10

Now then, if you can give me some links to this evidence I've missed, I'll be able to continue contributing to this thread without appearing such an idiot.

Holyman, I provided you many links reporting violations of both the IAEA and UN Security Council regarding their nuke program.

No Foota.

You provided me with links showing that Iran is enrinching uranium, as it is perfectly entitled to as a NNPT signatory.

What you haven't shown me is any evidence of an Iranian nuclear weapons programme.

I find it very odd that a smart person like you could not be informed on this issue.  Even the Guardian, Independent and BBC have extensively reported on this story.

This is not exactly new news.

Rather unsurprisingly, I don't find it at all odd that you seem to be incapable of differentiating between nuclear energy and nuclear weapons programmes.

I.

Know.

Iran.

Is.

Enriching.

Uranium.

I also know that the Iranian Government claims, officially, to be enriching uranium for use in civilian energy plants.

I know too that this was a process begun under a previous Iranian regime, by the United States of America.

And, I know that despite being a signatory member of the NNPT, Iran has been subjected to more stringent and intrusive IAEA inspections than any other country. And, I know that despite these inspections, no trace whatsoever of any nuclear weapons programme has been discovered in Iran.

And you know Foota, we've been down this road before, haven't we? Not so long ago either.

Somehow, someway, using some arcane and mystical form of advertorial programming, your otherwise common sense intelligence has been twisted to believe that "No evidence, IS evidence!"

It was the same in Iraq as it is now with Iran.

The United States accuses Iran/Iraq (*delete as applicable) of stockpiling WMD's, with the avowed intent of immediately using those weapons to destroy The United States/Israel/The World (*delete as applicable).

Everyone in the World not a satrap or employee of the United States, looks at the accusation and dismisses it as wholly lacking in credibility; the United States then mounts a diplomatic campaign of coercion and bribery, to try to gain sufficient support for action in the United Nations (looks good on domestic American TV). The United Nations investigates the original accusations and finds them without any substantial merit; the United States fails to get exactly what it wants at the United Nations, and is forced to accept some kind of compromise.

The United States dismisses the United Nations as irrelevant.

And invades anyway?

God I hate repeats.

Well, that's what's happening in the Real World anyway.

Meanwhile, back on the Ranch, the quiet insinuation that the very LACK of evidence is, uh, proof of evidence, is working it's magic:

"There are known knowns. These are things we know that we know. There are known unknowns. That is to say, there are things that we know we don't know. But there are also unknown unknowns. There are things we don't know we don't know."

(Even Secretaries of Defence find it confusing...)

So, last week Foota, we were talking about taking action to remove a bureaucrat who may not be up to the job. If proven guilty, this bureaucrat would be publicly humiliated, before being pardoned for his crimes and then allowed to live out his retirement on his farm in Uruguay.

Foota, you felt that the standard of evidence required to even BEGIN PROCEEDINGS, should be set at: absolute and incontrovertible proof.

Now then, this week, we come to the subject of taking punitive action against a sovereign nation, based merely on the suspicions of the Bush Administration.

And bear in mind that whilst we MIGHT be talking about Bush's exile to Uruguay, IF he is found guilty of the worst imaginable crimes; we are DEFINITELY talking about a War that would undoubtedly cost hundreds of thousands of lies.

Add to that the fact that any act of military aggression by Israel or the United States against Iran would very probably kick-off Humanity's final days as the subject of Nature's Experiment with Higher Intelligence...

And, well, you start to see why your double standards and hypocrisy - not to mention your genocidal tendencies - give many the impression that you are not a very nice guy Foota.

Peace