In Reply To #19

What puzzles me is WHY the Iranian government is so hell bent on proceeding with enriching its own uranium when perfectly acceptable alternatives for obtaining reactor fuel have been offered to them.

President Alphabet gave a plausible answer to this in the American Media.

He stated that in the past, Iran has been let down by countries like Germany and Russia, who have bowed to U.S. pressure, and failed to honour contracts in place with Iran.

Since Iran can not hope to apply the same kind of diplomatic or economic pressure on Germany or Russia, that the United States can: those countries are always going to bend to the will of the U.S., ultimately.

While the Dollar is still worth something, anyway... But even then...

Since the Iranian People can't rely on contracts signed between Iran and Nations that will bend to the will of the U.S., the Iranian People would rather become self-sufficient for their Energy Requirements.

Setting up their own enrichment plants must be costing them a fortune and is the ONE thing that has the international community upset regarding their nuclear power generation plans.

They haven't had to spend as much on their nuclear-energy infrastructure as you might imagine; but anyway, with oil prices what they are, the Iranian Government has plenty to spend on Infrastructure Projects.

The reason they haven't had to spend so much on developing a nuclear-energy infrastructure, is because back in the 1970's, when Iran was ruled by the U.S.-friendly Dictator Shah, such luminaries in the Ford Administration as Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld, began the process of building a nuclear-energy infrastructure for the then pliant Iran.

It was deemed sensible for Iranians to have nuclear power in the 1970's, for the same reason it is sensible today: because the price of oil makes it more profitable for Iranians to sell it, than consume it themselves, if a cheaper alternative can be developed.

And since there's money to burn, with oil prices being what they are: why not develop a self-sufficient Civilian Nuclear Energy Infrastructure?

The only reason that the International Community gets upset at Iran's behaviour, is because it is deemed to be provocative to the deeply irrational and unstable Superpower that it the United States of America.

If it weren't for America and Israel's nuclear-tipped threats, then the Iranians could continue to thumb their noses at the U.S. without disturbing the International Community. As it is, the Rest of the World would rather the Iranians keep quiet, whilst the World waits out the end of the Absolute Disaster for Humanity that has been the Bush Administration.

But keeping quiet isn't compatible with Domestic Politics.

Hard-line elements within Iranian Society demand a show of defiance in the face of American threats and aggression; just as there are hard-line elements within U.S. Society who demand displays of military strength from their Government.

Ask yourself honestly Sid:

If you had the chance to be self-sufficient in whatever commodity you felt you needed to be comfortable - and Energy is a pretty basic essential - but only the Big Bully on the Block was demanding you be dependent on at least ONE of the Great Powers: what would you choose?

If the Iranians *CAN* be self-sufficient for Nuclear Energy: why should they not be allowed to become so?

They are well within their Rights, as signatories to the NNPT, to do so. They have voluntarily surrendered their right to pursue the development of nuclear weapons - unlike its principal regional rival and threat: Israel - and part of the bargain was that the nuclear-armed powers would provide assistance and co-operation to countries seeking nuclear energy.

The Genius in the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty was and is this:

Assisting and co-operating with countries seeking nuclear energy, means you get to participate and become very familiar with their nuclear operations. It becomes, in fact, much easier to keep an eye on nuclear activities which might or could lead to a breach of the NNPT, with the development of a nuclear weapons capability.

But the Iranians have learned to their cost that they simply can not compete for Geo-political pressure, with the United States.

Other countries like Russia and Germany have shown that they will renege on contracts to supply Iran, if subjected to sufficient pressure by the United States Government.

The ***ONLY*** "Chip" that the Iranian Government has to play in this Game with the U.S., is control of access to Iranian Nuclear Facilities.

Iran provides sufficient periodic access to its nuclear facilities, to allow the I.A.E.A. to repeatedly and confidently predict that there is no evidence of an Iranian nuclear-weapons programme.

In fact, the most recent report from the I.A.E.A. noted that the Iranians weren't even enriching sufficient uranium to the required 5% needed for its Nuclear Energy Programme. Weapons-grade uranium needs to be enriched to something like 90%, for it to be of any use. The I.A.E.A. inspectors can find absolutely no evidence of the kind of activity required to do that.

Presumably, the Iranian Government and authorities are spending more of their time preparing Iranian Society for a possible U.S. and/or Israeli attack; than they are pursuing the Programme that is apparently causing all the fuss.

Peace