In Reply To #22

Even taking evil Cheney and the other US administration hawks out of the equation for a moment, Israel, I believe, simply will not allow Iran to even have the capacity to generate nuclear energy, if they feel it could one day be used to create a nuclear weapon. They WILL strike if Iran carries on with it (don't you agree?)

So tell me your honest opinion. If YOU were the Iranian government, what would YOU do? Damned if I can see a way out for them, other than giving it up for the moment as a risk too great to continue with. Or are they thinking well, in for a penny in for a pound? If no strikes occur they have nuclear power, if strikes do occur then they would have lost it anyway and it's a huge propaganda win for the Islamic world.

Thoughts?

I don't think that what the Iranian Government is doing now, is as proactive as you think it could be.

As an Islamic Theocracy, they are the very definition of Reactionaries.

Persians' ancient political culture informs them that to sit and wait patiently, and wait for your enemy to move first, gives you your best hope of an advantage.

There's not much point asking me what *I* would do, if I were the Iranian Government, because my values and beliefs are so far removed from the values and beliefs of the people in the Iranian Government.

If I was the Iranian Government, I would simply throw myself on the mercy of the International Community: which is, I think, what President Alphabet has been doing in the U.S. this week.

He's presenting himself, and Iraqi Society, as moderate, sophisticated and urbane: a creature far removed from the babbling and foaming demon the U.S. Media would like Americans to think him to be.

Unfortunately, it's a bit like the President of North Korea's take on sophisticated and urbane: it's a bit out of date.

If I place Kim Il Jong at around 1975, circa Elvis' jump-suit years at Las Vegas; then I place President Alphabet somewhere in the mid-1980's, probably chasing an alligator around Miami.

It's like, the Ultra-Conservatives in the Iranian Government have decided that they need someone "hip, cool and trendy; and grooving to the vibe of Modern Times", to interface with Western Society. As far as most of the humans in the Iranian Government count, and as best as they can understand, Ahmadinejad might as well be a Westerner, for all his strange, cosmopolitan ways.

Just the person to send off and negotiate with the Westerners.

Iran is in a no-lose diplomatic situation.

If the U.S. or Israel attacks Iran, it will be to the background of absolute uproar in the International Community. Tensions will rack so high, so very quickly, that it could very well herald Humanity's Final (and Fatal) War with Itself.

The consequences for the World, that would follow a U.S. or Israeli attack on Iran, would relegate what actually happens subsequently in Iran, to the role played by Bosnia, in World War One, after the assassination of the Arch-Duke Ferdinand of Austro-Hungary.

There's a very good chance that the U.S. (and Israel) would be bankrupted by the Great Powers it is indebted to, before it got that far of course, but either way, neither Israel nor the U.S. Governments are domestically or diplomatically strong enough to get away with an attack on Iran.

I suspect that the Iranians know this too. If I can work it out: I'm sure they did long ago.

And it might be a more plausible and less cynical explanation for why the Iranian Mullahs continue to permit President Alphabet to tweak the beak of the weakened American Eagle.

Because the *MOST LIKELY* outcome of this whole mess, is that the U.S. will NOT launch an attack on Iran in the next eighteen months; nor will it permit Israel to do so either. And there is even less domestic support in Israel for an attack on Iran, than there is in the United States. So it is unlikely that Israel will go it alone.

Though not impossible.

When the U.S. fails to launch its threatened strike, most probably because the Bush Administration leaves the White House before it can orchestrate the strike: Iran will achieve an enormous rise in status in the Islamic World; comparable in scale to the rise in Hezbollah's status, after it defeated the Israeli Invasion of Lebanon last year - but of a much grander stature.

Fact is, there isn't really anything the Iranians can do; but sit and wait, and prepare to react to the most likely outcomes of this situation.

I suspect Iran will keep up a certain desultory level of progress with its Nuclear Energy Infrastructure; but the Iranians aren't stupid enough to divert funds that can be used for defence, to building something that may not survive the next eighteen months without being evaporated.

If the U.S. and Israelis are going to attack Iranian Nuclear facilities; it doesn't seem a responsible thing for the Iranian Government to do, to ensure those facilities are working at their full potential.

If I were the Iranian Government, I COULD do nothing but sit and wait, to see what the U.S. or Israel will do.

But what I would WANT to do, would be to throw open the doors of the entire country of Iran, to inspection and co-operation of any and every nuclear facility, by anyone with an interest.

If the International Community is/was allowed unrestricted access to Iran's nuclear facilities, then it would be all but impossible for the Bush Administration to fabricate evidence of a WMD programme.

Again.

Whilst the Iranian Government can't do that for reasons of domestic politics and pride; I suspect that they are keeping it in their back-pocket, as a sort of, uh, "Nuclear Option".

If it really looks like the balloon is about to go up, then the Iranian Government will invite inspectors and delegations from any and every country that wants to have a look around Iranian nuclear facilities.

In addition to utterly destroying any U.S. Government claims about its nuclear activities; the Iranians will simultaneously fill their country with a Diplomatic Human Shield that the United States would never dare to attack.

That's what I'd do. :)

Peace