The "Risk", as you put it, is entirely a product of propaganda SomeGuy.

The Neo-Conservatives in the United States would like to regain the control over Iran (and Iranian oil) that the U.S. had from the early 1950's to 1979; primarily because the U.S. needs a lot of oil, and also because it doesn't want China to get that oil.

Israel wants, as always, to neutralise a regional competitor. With Saudi Arabia comfortably controlled by U.S. supported and maintained despots, and Iraq now fully neutralised, the only regional threat to Israel left, is Iran.

And those Sunni Muslim despots in Saudi Arabia are well aware of the threat to their positions that comes from a strong Shia Muslim, oil-rich nation in the region.

Iran presents no more threat to the region, Israel, the United States, or the World, than Iraq did in 2003.

[b]*IF*[/b] the Iranians ever come into possession of a functioning nuclear device, to use it would invite instant annihilation from Israel's considerable stockpile of 200-300 nuclear missiles; as well as the massive nuclear arsenal that the Neo-Conservatives are itching to use.

Iran could [b]*ONLY*[/b] ever use a nuclear weapon as a deterrent.

You, and a handful of other gullible Americans, are being fed the idea that Iranians are somehow fanatical, suicidal, genocidal, sociopathic, religiously motivated nut-jobs. You are being fed this propaganda, so that you will believe that if the Iranians ever got hold of a nuclear weapon, they would use it immediately against Israel.

It is a cartoonish piece of propaganda that only someone as stupid as you would swallow.

And in swallowing it, you move to a position where you can fully justify and support the use, by America and Israel, of a pre-emptive nuclear strike against a non-nuclear armed country.

It is [b]*YOU*[/b] and your country that are the villains in this piece SomeGuy, not the Iranians.

It is George Bush, Dick Cheney and the United States of America that is seen, by the Rest of the World, as the rogue nation most likely to (again) use nuclear weapons on our Planet and species.

The Iranians are fully within their rights as signatories to the NNPT, to enrich their own uranium.

The last time the Iranians relied on the Russians to supply them with enriched uranium, the U.S. pressured Russia to halt those supplies.

In their 2007 National Intelligence Estimate, [b]*ALL 16*[/b] of the United States' Intelligence Agencies concurred that Iran had ended any nuclear weapons research in 2003; not that much had been done anyway.

There is no reason to fear Iran; and every reason to fear the United States and Israel. The U.S. and Israel are the only nations in the World to have unilaterally and illegally attacked other sovereign nations in the 21st Century.

Diplomatically, the E.U. and the U.N. are just trying to do everything they can to stop the Iranians thumbing their noses at the U.S., for the seven remaining months of the Bush Administration.

The Iranians are not scared of the United States; and they are gaining great credibility in the region for demonstrating that.

The Rest of the World's diplomats are terrified that the Bush and Olmert Administrations are going to engage in one last, final, stupid act of illegal violence and terror, before they both leave office in ignominy.

That is all.

Peace