In Reply To #92

In Reply To #85

Yes: the People of Europe - and the World - consider Russia and China to be less unpopular than the United States of America.

What it takes to be less unpopular, is:

• No illegal invasions and occupations of sovereign nations and societies

OK, perhaps we should follow China and Russia's "lead to popularity" by:

- Spreading radioactive poison all over Western Europe

- Shutting down gas and oil pipelines to Eastern Europe

- Assassinating investigative journalists

- Poisoning political opponents

- Censoring the internet

- Jailing political dissidents

Then we will be back in the world's good graces.  China and Russia's thuggery listed above is not ancient history BTW.  Apparently the world sheep don't mind it or actually think it is popular!

Nope.

They just don't see it as threatening to them or irresponsible as the United States' CURRENT behaviour.

And Foota, I've said this to you on SO many occasions..:

Who around here is trying to defend the governments of Russia and China?

Answer: No-one.

And who around here is trying to defend the government of the United States?

Answer: ....

You *KNOW* the answer already.

Really Foota, you find someone who believes as sincerely and passionately in the foreign policies of Russia or China, and get them onto this Forum to try and defend the Russian or Chinese Government: THEN you can sit back and watch me explain patiently to them, why they are as deluded as you.

I spoke of how America had the World's sympathy, in the days following 9/11.

And if you used your imagination Foota, you would realise that there are other things that America and Americans could do - and could stop doing - to earn and KEEP the World's sympathy.

Again Holyman, I am not interested in being in a state of affairs where I have to collect the world's sympathy.  I would rather have the world's respect.  We all know that respect comes grudgingly and often long after the fact.

Nonsense.

Respect, when it is forthcoming, is given in relief and celebration. After all: there isn't really a surplus of people and governments worthy of respect, now is there?

Are you implying that if the World just sits back and let the Bush Administration fulfil its "Noble" manifesto to unilaterally dominate the World; then eventually we'll all see the sense in it, and give the U.S. its due respect?

Besides, we all know how long that sympathy lasted as our great friends in France were editorializing within weeks of 9/11 how we had it coming and publishing best selling books about 9/11 conspiracy theories.

But you DID have it coming.

Sympathy doesn't equal the suspension of rational faculty.

No, I brought up Katrina and New Orleans, because I was trying to make the point that I, and the Rest of the World, will always be more informed about what America looks like to the Rest of the World, than any American.

You brought up Katrina because you were being a twat reveling in another nation's catastrophe.  Talk about being "informed about what America looks like" - surely you are aware about how wrong and incorrect the sensational Katrina reporting was with false accusations of rape, murder and even cannibalism?

You are simply buying into the simplistic caricature of America created by the Media.  As was very clear with Katrina, the Media can't get the story right in their own country, let alone reporting complex issues in war zones across the world.

Good job I don't rely on the Media then, isn't it.

Do you?

I didn't mention the behaviour of the citizens of New Orleans: I was talking about the woeful and clearly inadequate and very callous response to Katrina by the Federal Government, then and now.

2 years after Katrina, how many residents of New Orleans are still living in temporary FEMA accommodation?

What is happening to New Orleans four largest housing projects? Have they been repaired, re-opened, rebuilt?

How many times greater is New Orleans' homeless population, than it was immediately before Katrina?

WHAT has the U.S. Federal Government done, in two years, to help New Orleans' residents recover from Hurricane Katrina?

(And as you consider your answers, remember that the U.S. Federal Government is spending $2.5 BILLION A DAY, to supposedly "help" the citizens of Iraq.)

No Foota, what these screeds of mine are about, can be distilled to two simple points:

1) Americans like you, have NO FUCKING IDEA about the contempt with which the Rest of the World holds the U.S.

This contempt and lack of respect MUST be of concern to you, since you support so much of the current U.S. Foreign Policy platform. How can the United States hope to get *ANYTHING* done in the World, if the Whole World despises it and sees it as a threat to the security of the World, and the existence of Humanity?

2) The Bush Administration has nothing but contempt for all Human Beings who could not, did not or would not vote for them; and now that it doesn't have to worry about re-election, that contempt extends to pretty much everyone.

Direct Questions for you Foota:

You have already said that you do not support a U.S. attack on Iran.

How do you feel about the Bush Administration repeatedly threatening Iran with an attack?

What will your reaction be if the U.S. DOES attack Iran?

How will an attack on Iran change your view of the Bush Administration, if at all?

If a single attack on U.S. forces in Iraq - that results in the deaths of say, 100 service personnel - is or can be plausibly linked to the Iranian Government, would that change your opinion about the need to attack Iran?

Does the United States of America need the respect of other societies and nations of the World?

Just what exactly do you believe the U.S. could do now, to try and recover some of the respect it used to enjoy, from some if not all of the Nations of the World?

Peace