In Reply To #139

In Reply To #135

You may not like their laws but you also do not live under their laws either so it does not affect you and should not concern you. You have a country of your own which has plenty enough problems to worry about. If nosy assholes here at home decided to concentrate their efforts right here at home instead of wasting efforts elsewhere don't you think we might actually accomplish a bit more in the way of bettering the lives of U.S. citizens?

Quoted for Truth.

Look, of course I don't share your level of intolerance to other peoples' lifestyle choices.

I could give a fuck what two or more consenting males want to get up to in their private, Emotional lives.

Good luck to them I say. I hope they find happiness; and I'm delighted to share my social space with people who have found happiness.

Cool enough.

My own personal standards about what passes for sexual decency are pretty fucking lax; but I *AM* a parent. And I recognise situations where conversations and themes between adults become sexually charged.

As a responsible parent, I wouldn't allow my child to become confused or distressed, by situations he's really not psychologically or Emotionally equipped to deal with. It doesn't matter to me what the nature of the sexual charge is, gay, straight, or anything goes: it is incompatible with responsible parenting.

And by that I mean, just as I don't want heterosexuals ramming their sexual lifestyle choices down peoples throats, where children might be around (i.e. in Public); I don't really want homosexuals, uh, ramming their sexuality down others' throats in Public - one way or another.

But hey, I'm easy: I can just as easily *NOT* take my son into town on Gay Pride Day.

Not while he's still a child, leastways. If he wants to go see what all the fuss is about when he's old enough to figure it out for himself: good luck to him. He should learn to make his own mind up about these sorts of things.

And when he comes back looking absolutely petrified at some of the things he's just seen; I can sit there looking smug, and make all sorts of lewd insinuations. :)

And that's about as much of an issue as I want sexuality to be, in my son's Life. There's so much other, so much more confusing stuff to be getting his head around, I wouldn't want him to get hung up on dealing with *MY* hang-ups.

Once he's sixteen, if he wants to become a shirt-lifter, that's his choice.

What I do know now, is that if I were to let on to him that I was in any way homophobic, he's shrewd enough to use that phobia as a way to piss me off, when he's pissed off with me.

And I've got *NO* intention of pissing my son off into becoming a shit-stabber.

As for the standards of other people - the standards *I* expect from other people...

Well, to be honest, I don't spend all that much Time worrying over that either.

I'm Super-Tolerant, so I could give a fuck. I prefer my Social interactions to be held in an above-the-waist context. I got all my needs for below-the-waist Social Interaction out of my System in my Twenties.

*That's* what the Twenties are *there* for...

Not for fighting: but fucking.

It's a miserable Man who enters Middle Age without having exhausted his Libido's Imagination in Reality.

Which is I think why We send them off to Fight, rather than let them stay at home and fuck...

Those who return from the Fight, are seldom Emotionally equipped to form Emotionally respectful and enduring Relationships with Women. So they return to the Fight to exercise their sexual energies in other ways.

It is any coincidence that the Military has such an issue with homosexuals?

Homosexuals have always been the mainstay of any tight, effective fighting force. Such tight fighting forces as you might find on board ships at sea for instance; or defending lonely frontier outposts, denied or discouraged from accessing women - excepting only those women whose Time and Dignity may be bought.

The Greeks and the Romans, who laid the basis for the Classical Warfare Tactics, now largely redundant, were all screaming benders.

The "300" (or so) who fought at Thermopylae were all famous whoopsies: not a single muff-diver amongst them. Fuck, things got so drastic for the Greek Women, that a bunch of them even cut off their right tits, to try and get more attention, by being more like men than the bi-titted Greek Women.

(NB. When Women are slicing their Tits up to get Men's attention: there is something going seriously wrong with Society.)

You know, the Iranians kind of lured Americans into a trap there, with their outrage over "300".

My how they chortled in the Tehran Bazaar, at the sound of Americans all rallying behind a famous victory; a victory for men who when they weren't fighting, had their cocks in each others' arses.

There are some things that Persians would rather die, than do.

And taking it up the shitter is one of them.

Actually, and Diplomatically.

Now I don't believe in, or agree with corporal or capital punishment for convicted War Criminals, and assorted purveyors of Genocide.

And I certainly don't believe that the issue of Social Punishment or ostracism should add further pressure to an individual's discovery and self-definition of their own Sexuality.

Fuck it. We were all Learner Drivers once; and we all of us turned up a few back alleys before we figured out how to Navigate Like A Man.

I'm not saying every bloke has had a go at chugging cock; but I *AM* saying that some of the stuff we did with chicks - or at least, tried real hard to do with chicks - were wrong turnings enough.

The Sexual Highway isn't a straightforward Intersection, where you choose one direction or the other; it's a Fractal Landscape of ever-changing parameters, affected and directed by one's own ever-changing desires.

Women don't try to think their way through it: they just Float through it; sufficiently Emotionally equipped from birth; and protected by Male Society.

Women glide through the myriad Networks of Emotions with ease, Perfectly attuned to the Task; able to navigate flawlessly, the Emotional Highways and By-ways of respectful and consensual Sexual Congress, with ease.

And then, a Man clubs one of those Women and drags her back to his Cave, to teach her all about Love, and what a Relationship needs to be about.

And serious problems begin to develop for Society.

Meanwhile, men congregate at Sexual Intersections, too frightened to ask each other for directions.

And get angry and frustrated with each other; or, as horny a fuck, and hey, any hole's a goal, right?

Same difference.

Iranians, and Saudia Arabians, and many other Conservative Nations, simply do not have the same problem with homosexuality that the United States has.

Now bear with me on this: because this is pretty fucking key to understanding the logic behind Ahmadinejad's joke...sorry...Speech.

Iran has no problem with homosexuals; because Iran HAS NO HOMOSEXUALS.

And every now and then, the Iranian Government hangs a few Iranian homosexuals, to demonstrate that there ARE no homosexuals in Iran.

(The Saudi Arabians do exactly the same.)

Does that make sense?

By hanging a token number of sex offenders every now and then, for the crime of being homosexual, the Iranian Government is demonstrating a defined and delineated policy. FORMALLY refusing to acknowledge the existence of homosexuals in Public Life in Iran, places a clear limit on the amount of involvement the Iranian Government will have on its Citizens' sexual activity.

The question you have to ask yourself, when you look at pictures of Iranians or Saudi Arabians hanging homosexuals to death, is just how many practicing homosexuals are there in Iran?

Given the size of the male Iranian population; given that male populations' relative youth (mostly in their late twenties, early thirties - too young to have been killed in the Iran-Iraq War); and given the theocratic restrictions on fraternising with women:

Just how many arse-bandits *ARE* there in Iran?

It strikes me that if the homosexual population of Iran is anything close to the proportions of homosexuality in less restricted Societies: why aren't the Iranians (and Saudi Arabians) hanging hundreds of homosexuals every week.

Surely we'd hear about it, if they were?

No, actually, when you read the accompanying articles at source, you find that the individuals concerned were as likely as not guilty of far greater sexual misdemeanours, than simply just enjoying oiling each other up, and plunging the depths of Decency.

Some nonce or group of child-molesters gets caught up in the jagged wheel of Iranian Mob Justice. Iranian honour and dignity demand a capital punishment for the individuals who raped their wives, and sexually assaulted their children.

The Medieval Koran, written in an age when such familial considerations were not quite so relevant, describes Capital Punishment only for the "crime" of sodomy, or "Lavat".

And so the Iranian Justice System strings up some paedophiles, for the Koranic crime of using their arses for two-way traffic; not what Allah intended at all.

Iran has no problem with homosexuals, because Iran HAS NO HOMOSEXUALS.

That is as far as Iranian Government bureaucracy extends on the matter. The Iranian Government has no capacity, facility for or intent to identify and investigate suspected Iranian homosexuals:

Because Iran Has No Homosexuals.

End of story. No need to waste precious Government resources, hunting down and eradicating what most Persian men are more vigorously educated to see as a perversion of God's Will, than most Westerners are. Government has better things to do, than be getting on with a problem that doesn't exist:

Because Iran Has No Homosexuals.

Make of that what you will, but you heard it from the Pantomime Horse's mouth. It's as much as Ahmadinejad could say, without seriously undermining a domestic détente that has always kept Iranian homosexuality a very discreet distance from Iranian Public Life.

Fact of the matter is, that if the Iranian authorities were spending their Time hunting down and rounding up homosexuals; they'd be able to use all the corpses of Persian Pillow-biters as a missile defence shield against a U.S. attack.

Clearly we'd have heard about it if they were; we haven't; so clearly that isn't what they are doing.

Personally, I believe it to be a psychological disconnection, wilfully enforced by propagandised male Americans; who having left the exhausted and bloody victim of the last Nation the U.S. Government fucked in the arse, have now got their eyes on showing some younger and prettier Persian arse-holes who is the Boss Around Here.

I think Everyone needs to get laid more.

Who gives a fuck who with: so long as Everyone is enjoying it.

Make Love, Not War.

Peace