In Reply To #2

Holyman and I may disagree on this point (and I welcome any counterarguments from him) but if Iran truly are developing nuclear weapons, I firmly believe that their program MUST be halted.

No disagreement here Sid.

I'm a Pacifist remember: the last thing I want to see more of on this Planet, are nuclear weapons.

I firmly believe that *IF* the Iranians are developing nuclear weapons, then the International Community should take whatever steps it agrees as necessary, to prevent the development of an Iranian nuclear weapon capability.

However:

• There is *NO* evidence whatsoever that the Iranians *ARE* trying to develop a nuclear weapon

• There is a mountain of independent and objective evidence that the Iranians are *SOLELY* engaged in a peaceful civilian nuclear programme

• The Iranian Government are signatories to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty

• The Iranian Government continually insists that nuclear weapons are un-Islamic; and that it does not believe in the efficacy of nuclear weapons; and it is making no attempt to develop its own nuclear weapons

• The current U.S. and Israeli Governments are the *ONLY* groups of individuals who claim that the Iranians are developing a nuclear bomb

Everyone else outside the U.S. and Israeli political establishments, including I.A.E.A. and U.N. inspectors, agrees that there is no Iranian WMD programme.

Now I'm not saying there *ISN'T* an Iranian nuclear weapons programme.

I'm just saying that the only people who are saying there is, are the same people who told us that Iraq had a functioning nuclear weapons programme in 2002.

And the same people who told us in 2002 and 2003 that Iraq had no WMD's, or a programme to make them, are the same people telling us now that Iran has no WMD programme.

And just as it made no logical sense that the U.S. would have invaded Iraq if they thought Saddam Hussein would use WMD's against U.S. Forces; it makes no sense now that the Iranians *WOULD* try to develop a nuclear weapons capability.

Not when mere trace evidence of such a programme would more or less invite annihilation for the Iranian Government.

And not when the wily Iranians have so much to gain diplomatically, from appearing to be the mild-mannered and meek country being bullied and pushed around by the United States.

No sense at all.

Peace