In Reply To #3

In Reply To #2

Well that's the guise anyway.

Are YOU saying that Iran has honest in these last 35 years about their programs?

Well, let's see:

35 years ago = 1972

Up until 1979, the U.S. puppet, the Shah of Iran ruled the country as a dictator (did I mention he was supported by th U.S?).

The United States began the Iranian nuclear energy programme, so that, of course, more Iranian oil could be sold since less would be required for domestic consumption.

That programme was put on hold, briefly, by the 1979 Islamic Revolution, before recommencing with West German assistance in the early 1980's.

But development of the programme was very difficult during the (U.S. initiated) Iran-Iraq War (1980 - 1988), and it didn't really get going again until the mid-1990's, when the Russians began to provide considerable assistance.

And finally, since Bush included Iran in his "Axis of Evil" speech, his Administration has been trying desperately to prove that Iran is developing a nuclear weapons programme.

Heard something similar once before, didn't we?

Meanwhile, EVERYBODY ELSE IN THE WHOLE FUCKIN WORLD OUTSIDE OF THE U.S.A., who have (coincidentally, I'm sure) NOT been subjected to anti-Iranian propaganda, realises that whilst it wouldn't be at all surprising if Iran did develop nuclear weapons - given the constant threats it receives from nuclear-armed Israel & the U.S. - there is ZERO evidence that Iran is developing a nuclear weapons programme.

Iran, unlike Israel and Pakistan, is a signatory to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, and is completely within its rights to develop nuclear technology for domestic energy purposes. By signing the NNPT, Iran has forgone the diplomatic and international right to develop their own nuclear weapons. And nuclear weapons have been declared "un-Islamic" (tell that to Pakistan!) by the ruling Islamic Theocracy.

Now, you might very well feel that those naughty, deceitful, untrustworthy sand-dwellers in Iran aren't telling the Whole Truth. You might feel that if you were Iran, you would definitely be developing a nuclear weapons programme (like North Korea) to deter the United States from doing to Iran, what it has done to Iraq.

And, you might also feel that ALL of the experts who said Iraq didn't have WMD's - Scott Ritter; Hans Blix; Mohammed El-Baradei; and basically, anyone outside of the US & Israeli governments - and who are now stating at least as emphatically that Iran doesn't even have a nuclear weapons programme, let alone weapons grade uranium or a useable delivery system... Are all deluded fools who just want to see Iranian nukes destroy the World.

And, finally - and most delusionally of course - you might also feel that the instant that the Iranian government gets hold of at least a handful of functioning nukes, it will immediately launch them against Israel, and/or any other nation or organisation they don't like the look of (and of course, instantly invite retaliatory annihilation for the entire Islamic Republic of Iran).

But, you should understand that if you feel any or all of the above, it is a response to propaganda, not to anything actually happening.

Just thought I'd give you a heads up. :)

Peace