In Reply To #81

In Reply To #80

Oh come off it Holyman.

America is as popular as South Africa under apartheid?

Yes.

In World Opinion, America is at least as unpopular as South Africa under its Apartheid regimes.

And given that South Africa's segregationist policies were largely an internal matter, and didn't involve illegal invasions of oil-rich countries half a World away, or bringing the World to the brink of World War Three (repeatedly); I'd say that right now, America is MORE unpopular than apartheid-era South Africa.

Do the people of Europe really consider Russia and China to be more popular in terms of human rights and foreign policy?  If so, I would love to hear their metrics on what it takes to be popular.

Yes: the People of Europe - and the World - consider Russia and China to be less unpopular than the United States of America.

What it takes to be less unpopular, is:

• No illegal invasions and occupations of sovereign nations and societies

And yes, I realise that China invaded Tibet fifty years ago; and the Soviet Union invaded Eastern Europe and Afghanistan. But that all happened in the past; and the governments of Mao Zedong and the Soviet Union, have long since vanished from today's Map of History.

But America did its own share of Invading, destabilising and coup d'etat, while the Soviet Union and China were expanding their dominions. The difference is that the U.S. is STILL doing it. It has done it once, recently and tragically; and now it threatens to do it again.

The metrics for the "Unpopularity of World Governments" Foota, is not based on some decades long overview of historical political coursework. As you know, most people's grasp of History ain't all that. The measure of a Government or Society's unpopularity, is based on its current actions.

And currently, there is only one National Power in the World that is seeking to assert unilateral dominance over the Rest of the World: the United States of America.

The "metrics on what it takes to be popular", really begin with showing a bit of respect and consideration to your neighbours. They include being open to advice, welcoming of your friend's opinions, no matter how difficult they may be to hear. It takes acknowledgement of one's responsibilities, and one's actions.

It takes the ABSENCE of threats and hostility. It is blocked by aggressive, hostile and arrogant behaviour. Popularity is all but destroyed, by incompetent and bloody military adventures that destroy hundreds of thousands of lives, and threatens millions more.

Perhaps most importantly, it requires Self Awareness.

The America you want other people to like and approve of Foota, doesn't exist.

What does exist is an America viewed as more monstrous and threatening than any other nation on the Planet; by all the People of this Planet.

At least we are more popular then those evil Jews in Israel!  That has to count for something in the blinkered realm of "world opinion" - right?  : )

In the Court of World Opinion, no distinction is drawn between the United States of America, and Israel.

What distinctions COULD be drawn?

You talk about how well "liked" America was in the immediate days after 9/11.  Call me an ingrate, but I don't really want to be "liked" by the rest of the world if it means we have to be down on our knees digging up the ashes of 3,000 human beings in New York and Washington DC.

No, I didn't talk about how "well liked America was", following 9/11.

I spoke of how America had the World's sympathy, in the days following 9/11.

And if you used your imagination Foota, you would realise that there are other things that America and Americans could do - and could stop doing - to earn and KEEP the World's sympathy.

It takes some nerve for someone from Europe (even the UK) to try and make some political points after the Katrina disaster about our government's lack of care.

Who's trying to make political points here Foota?

Is that what this is about for you? Just a simple competition, to see who can most resolutely and dogmatically maintain their political position?

Talk about fiddling while the World burns...

No, I brought up Katrina and New Orleans, because I was trying to make the point that I, and the Rest of the World, will always be more informed about what America looks like to the Rest of the World, than any American.

Your patriotic subjectivity renders you incapable of seeing America the way that people in the Rest of the World can and do; just as an individual's egos prevents them from seeing themselves the way that others do.

35,000 people died in Europe from just a modest Texas-sized heat wave back in 2003.

http://www.newscientist.com/article.ns?id=dn4259

I think it is a bit easier for the Government to protect people from the heat then to protect a city below sea level from one of the biggest hurricanes in recorded history.

Nice try Foota, but no points.

The 2003 heat-wave in Europe, killed 35,000 people throughout ALL of Europe, over an extended period of summer months. Europe is not a single Nation, with a single European Emergency Management Agency. Each incidence of death caused by the heat-wave, was handled by local emergency and medical services - the only way it COULD be handled.

When Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans in 2005, it was a single catastrophe, taking place over a few days, affecting a single American city.

It is not just the callous disregard that the Bush Administration showed for the American lives threatened and lost in New Orleans that exposed the contempt the current U.S. Government has for its people. It is that fully two years later, New Orleans is still devastated, with the Federal Government taking no steps to fund the resurrection of that city; and that the thousands of New Orleans' residents made homeless by Katrina are still living in temporary accommodation.

Throw in the fact that the individual who presided over the callous and incompetent response to Katrina, Michael Chertoff, far from having to resign in disgrace, now looks set to be the next U.S. Attorney General: and it should be pretty clear just how much contempt the U.S. Government holds its own citizens in.

Presumably there are no political points to be scored, resurrecting a largely Democrat-voting city...

**********

In Reply To #73

In Reply To #71

What did you think about the latest IAEA report on Iran?

http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/08/30/AR2007083000460.html?hpid=sec-world

1.  You believe the UN?

2.  You believe what leftwing biased media tells you?

I have to believe someone.

I am not currently in Tehran, probing around suspected nuclear weapons facilities, able to make up my own mind on whether or not Iran truly is developing nuclear weapons in contempt of the NNPT.

This isn't about believing the U.N. wholesale, buying into everything the U.N. has to say about everything.

It is a very simple question: is Iran developing nuclear weapons, in breach of the NNPT?

The U.N. and the International Atomic Energy Agency says that Iran is NOT developing nuclear weapons; that there is NO evidence of Iran developing nuclear weapons; that even its enrichment programme for nuclear energy use, is running well below capacity.

The CIA and the elusive U.S. National Intelligence Estimates also state that Iran is at least ten years away from developing a bomb, even if it starts right now.

And on the other side:

The Bush Administration states that Iran IS developing nuclear weapons; that Iran WILL use nuclear weapons against Israel, as soon as it has them - though it has no proof of this.

And, uh, that's it.

Not a shred of evidence, nothing more than a re-run of the rhetoric leading up to the Invasion of (also supposedly WMD-intent) Iraq.

And, an attack on Iran is precisely what the Neo-Conservative manifesto calls for; it is part of the Bush Administration's plans for a New American Century.

An attack on Iran would create a contiguous arc of war-torn anarchy from Iraq through Iran to Afghanistan; right at the heart of the World's major energy resources; and right on the doorsteps of China and Russia.

A hugely strategic gain for the United States of America.

In the run-up to the Invasion of Iraq, UN Weapons Inspectors, and the IAEA, were stating emphatically and repeatedly that Iraq did not have any nuclear weapons, or a functioning nuclear weapons programme.

During the same run-up, the Bush Administration was bending over backwards to try and convince the World that Iraq DID have a nuclear weapons programme.

And the eventual result? No nuclear weapons programme.

Bush Administration: 0; UN/IAEA Inspectors: 1.

Now since I've GOT to believe someone about Iran's WMD capability, why WOULD I believe the Bush Administration over the United Nations, when it comes to the "threat" posed to the World by Iran?

Why WOULD anyone believe the Bush Administration?

AGAIN?

Peace