In Reply To #35

Yup, I am the silly fool for taking the Iranian leader's  words at face value and expressing concern.  Are all these quotes from Ahmadejijad just more examples of translation errors from Farsi?

How about perceptions errors?  Zionist prop?

Well, they certainly carry the usual linguistic and etymological factors consistent with Propaganda Foota, yes.

How would you react - in fact: how DO you react - when talk of appeasement and engagement of the Islamic World is broached?

Just try, for a moment, flipping all the enmity you have for the Islamic World, on its head; and imagine you were looking at America and Israel through Islamic Eyes, with the same sentiments and emotions you have now.

Just how far do you think you would get, in the fiercely (and actually) Conservative World of Islamic Politics, if you spoke moderately about Israel?

Israel has repeatedly attacked its Islamic neighbours without provocation- as recently as last year; and continues to subjugate Palestinian Muslims in the Occupied Territories.

You are pulling up nebulous and tenuous quotes from the political past of a bureaucrat whose sole function is to manage domestic Economics, and Foreign Trade negotiations. Someone elected to replace the moderate Rafsanjani, who was deemed by Iran's hard-line to be ineffective at negotiating with the U.S. in Iran's interests.

One day Foota, you are going to get over the fact that most Muslims hate and despise the Modern State of Israel, in a way you can't really begin to perceive. That this hatred is expressed in domestic political discourse in the Islamic world; is as incomprehensible to you, as it appears unjust.

You'd no easier get a "Friend of Israel" to the Presidency of Iran; than you could get a Homosexual to the Presidency of the United States of America.

With your specious and dissembling quotes, you focus in on the rantings of someone you and I have already dismissed as not representative of Iranian Government Policy.

Fact of the matter is that the eradication of the Modern State of Israel is not the official position of the Iranian Government. It is taking no steps towards, and can take no steps towards such a goal, without inviting instant annihilation from Israel's nuclear arsenal.

You, for some inexplicable reason, are arguing why the President of Iran presents such a credible and existential threat to Israel; when you have already acknowledged that you don't support a military strike by the U.S. or Israel against Iran.

Why is that Foota?

Peace