In Reply To #40

In Reply To #37

Fact of the matter is that the eradication of the Modern State of Israel is not the official position of the Iranian Government. It is taking no steps towards, and can take no steps towards such a goal, without inviting instant annihilation from Israel's nuclear arsenal.

So you don't agree that Iran funds, supports, and arms Palestinian militants that wage war against Israel?

I mean honestly that's like saying the US wasn't trying to bring about the eventual downfall of the soviets through our support of the Mujahadeen in Afghanistan. We of course were just like the Iranians are trying to bring about the downfall of Israel through Palestinian militant groups.

Well primarily, Iran supports Hezbollah in Lebanon, as a Resistance Movement against repeated Israeli Invasions of Lebanon.

Of course there is the element that Iranians would rather Hezbollah were fighting Israel in Lebanon; than Iranians were having to fight Israelis (or flee from Israeli bombs) in Iran.

But your comparison with the U.S.'s sponsorship of the Mujahadeen in Afghanistan, doesn't entirely scan Raider - though it is very close in some respects.

The U.S. *DID* sponsor the Mujahadeen in Afghanistan, with the intention of destabilising the Soviet Union and its economy. The U.S. provided the Mujahadeen with equipment, training and logistical support to actively engage militarily with the Soviet presence in Afghanistan.

The U.S. had a moral pretext for this, in that the Soviet Union had invaded Afghanistan, and the U.S. provided help to the Mujahadeen, to resist the Soviet Occupation (help which also created problems for the U.S.'s then arch-enemy. (And how were the Americans to know they'd end up creating Al Qaeda as a result?)

Iran does not sponsor, supply or support Hezbollah attacks on Israel; nor does Iran sponsor, supply or support Palestinian attacks on Israel.

Rather, in both cases, Iran provides support to its fellow Muslims in the Arab World, to help defend against Israeli aggression.

It is Israeli that has colonised the Occupied Territories, and is subjugating and ethnically cleansing the Palestinians who have lived there for hundreds of years prior to the founding of the Modern State of Israel.

And it is Israel that has on at least four separate occasions, launched unprovoked and illegal Invasions of Lebanon: maintaining Hezbollah's legitimacy and credibility, amongst Lebanese Shia Muslims, and in the wider Arab and Islamic World, as a legitimate Resistance Movement.

It is for this reason that *ONLY* the U.S., Israel and Canada, classify Hezbollah, and most Palestinian paramilitary organisations as "Terrorist". The Rest of the World sees these organisations for what they are: responses to repeated and continual Israeli aggression against the Arab and Islamic World.

If Israel wants the Palestinians and Hezbollah to stop "waging War" against Israel: Israel should stop attacking these people.

End of Story.

Peace