In Reply To #186

In Reply To #185

So you believe that Afghanistan was seized to provide leverage against the Asian powers, but achieving that leverage by rerouting the oil never actually occurred to anybody until after we'd already taken the place over?

No.

I'm saying that nothing ever happens for a single reason.

Taking a country to War, attacking another country, requires enormous Human and Social Capital. It requires the confluence and collusion of several interested parties; all of whom must be able to perceive a net economic, moral, ideological or national gain, from the successful outcome of the War.

You piece together as much support as you can, when you want to go to War.

With the Invasion of Afghanistan, following 9/11, the U.S. Government had all the support it needed. And with the U.S. Strategy of arming the Northern Alliance Warlords, to fight the ground War against the Taliban, the U.S. achieved with ease, what everyone expected: the Richest Country in the World, easily crushing the Poorest; in military combat.

The Invasion of Afghanistan was a Cakewalk to get going. Whilst it was clearly obvious to all strategic planners that a pipeline to the Persian Gulf, from the Caspian Region, running through Afghanistan, was a good thing for U.S. political, social and economic interests; there clearly wasn't a sufficient cassus beli to invade Afghanistan, purely for the purpose of securing that one good thing.

The geo-political and economic ramifications of the U.S. invading Afghanistan purely to secure such a pipeline, would have been too daunting for the Bush Administration to attempt: pre-9/11.

The reason for the U.S. attack on Afghanistan is simple and clear: America wanted to strike back at the Enemy that had struck at it on 9/11.

I didn't agree with it as a response at the Time; and I don't agree with it now. But I *DO* agree that it was a diplomatically acceptable and reasonable response for the U.S. to take; and it had pretty much the unanimous support of the Rest of the World.

The Bush Administration attacked Afghanistan and changed the Governing Afghan Regime, because it was Afghanistan that the 9/11 criminals, attacked from.

That it also created other positive benefits for U.S. interests in the Region, was incidental to the Point of the Attack.

Flushed with its lightning success in Afghanistan, the Bush Administration dusted off other plans no Neo-Conservative had ever theorised in his wildest dreams, would be possible.

Most notably, an Invasion of Iraq.

Something which previously had only been dreamed of by Neo-Conservatives, became their Reality. If they could conflate and maintain the moral imperative that legitimised the attack on Afghanistan, with a moral imperative to invade Iraq, they would be on to a winner.

The Primary Incentive for an Invasion of Iraq, was to take control of Iraqi Oil Revenues from Saddam Hussein.

There were many other reasons: there HAD to be other reasons.

But without the presence of Iraqi Oil, there would have been no Invasion.

The Humanitarian motivation was an after-thought at best. All available evidence clearly indicates that the Bush Administration had no plans whatsoever, to take care of and re-build Iraqi Society, following the Invasion of Iraq, and ouster of Saddam Hussein.

No plans for Humanitarian Intervention whatsoever, in fact.

Such plans weren't needed: the diplomatic pretext for War - the pretext "Everyone could agree on." - was Weapons of Mass Destruction; not Nation-Re-Building.

The moral imperative and diplomatic legitimacy that backed the attack on Afghanistan, could only be stretched to cover Iraq, if Iraq could be plausibly demonstrated to be a threat on a par with Al Qaeda.

The need for a Humanitarian Intervention wasn't sufficient; it needed to be about threats to American and World Security - like what the attack on Afghanistan was.

That's why there was (and is) no plan in place to deal with the civil and social wreckage of Iraq, once the U.S. had fucked it good: because the Humanitarian aspect of the Mission, was merely Window Dressing.

As for the Moral Imperative of enforcing - what was it Foota? - 17 UN Resolutions: that only begs a question about America's peculiar mixture of arrogance and ignorance.

Why would the U.S. claim it had the moral legitimacy of previous U.N. Resolutions; when the U.N. was actively and expressly forbidding the U.S. from unilaterally and militarily enforcing those Resolutions?

No. The primary factor, and incentive, for the massive confluence and collusion of interests that facilitated the Invasion of Iraq, was of course, Iraqi Oil; without which, as "Everyone Knows", there would have been no Invasion.

Talk about stating the bleeding obvious...

There were many well-rehearsed and effectively-practiced plans in place to secure Iraq's Oil Infrastructure; and indeed, protection of that infrastructure continues to be the U.S. Military's key strategic purpose in Iraq right now:

Preventing anyone than the U.S. from gaining immediate and unconditional control of Iraqi Oil Revenue.

If the U.S. Military WERE in Iraq to rebuild a Nation: they're making a pretty bad job of it.

But Nation-building isn't what they're trained for; and clearly isn't what they're achieving.

So the U.S. Military remains in Iraq, primarily, to ensure that no-one but the U.S. gets a say in what happens to Iraqi Oil from here onwards.

Not because of Humanitarian or Moral reasons: but for purely Economic and Strategic ones.

Peace