In Reply To #150

2 Questions Foota:

Did the Bush Administration approve of the way that Saddam Hussein was controlling Iraqi oil revenues?

Did the Bush Administration invade Iraq to take control of those oil revenues from Saddam Hussein?

In Reply To #159

I answered your questions any number of times.

You just don't like the answers, so you have been trying to recast your questions to get the answers you want.

Nonsense Foota.

We are having a debate.

You have been trying to communicate and maintain a flawed and contradictory position. I have rolled up everything you have been saying in this thread, into two specific and pointed, closed questions.

You can only answer yes, or no.

If you answer no, then it undermines everything you've been saying in this thread. And if you answer yes, you vindicate my position, and repudiate your own.

And that's why you can't answer those two questions that have come at the end of yet another lengthy and torturous debate about the premise and justification for the Iraq War. And so you dismiss them as "silly", declare the debate over, and try to insinuate that this is all a personal attack by me, against you.

And through that: fail to answer those two questions.

You really want to end this debate?

Answer those two questions.

Since they are so "silly" and simple, and require only a "Yes" or "No" answer, you'd have done much better just to answer them. Instead, you've typed far more words, and complained far more bitterly, than if you'd just answered those two questions.

Simply Foota, it comes down to this:

• The Bush Administration did NOT approve of the way Saddam Hussein was using and controlling Iraqi oil revenues

• The Bush Administration would NOT have invaded Iraq, if Iraq had no oil

• The Bush Administration DID invade Iraq to take control of Iraqi oil from Saddam Hussein.

Now that's very easy to understand; and as Greenspan pointed out: Everyone already knows this. But your consistent position has always been that Iraqi oil was an incidental factor at best; and you have dismissed and ridiculed anyone who has ever suggested otherwise.

So the whole length of this thread, and indeed, the length of our entire debate on the subject of Iraq, AND the length of my posts to you: is all because you twist, turn and try to slime your way out of your wholly inconsistent, and intellectually bankrupt position.

And now, when utterly cornered, you try to fight your way out by dismissing this thread as an over-extended irrelevancy; and claiming that it's just about me personally attacking you.

But remember Foota, it wasn't me who made this personal.

Frankly, the way this thread has, uh, "developed" my views about you, I was happy to leave you dangling on the hook (as usual) at the same time that Mad Cat and Steelhed did. And I all but backed off.

But:

In Reply To #123

Holyman, I am not going to let you off the hook for moving the goal posts.

Your call Foota.

But to be honest - and you should really know this - your credibility, in this thread, has sunk to an EvilFitch low. Certainly with me, and I'm sure with many others.

Keep it up.

Peace

Debater