In Reply To #107

In Reply To #91

And yet now, you are acknowledging what Everyone Else already knows and knew:

That Iraqi Oil was the PRIMARY reason for the Invasion and Occupation, without which the Invasion would NOT have taken place.

Thanks for taking the time to dig up all those quotes.

No sweat. :)

But it really didn't take that long: the search function on these forums really *DOES* work!

See above for instructions on how I conducted my search. I hope my method meets with your approval. :)

As you freely admit, I have been extremely consistent, and they completely back up everything I have been saying all along.

I have been saying since day one that the Iraq war was not an oil grab.  America is not stealing Iraq's oil.

So, exactly how have I changed my tune?

By elevating the role of Iraqi Oil to the integral and primary reason for the Invasion of Iraq.

In this thread, you have acknowledged that without the presence of Iraqi oil, the Invasion wouldn't have taken place.

You've also repeated in some defiance, all the other reasons why the Invasion took place, all the reasons you've been repeating ad nauseum these past few years.

But what you've done in this thread, is elevated Iraqi Oil to the PRIMARY reason for the Invasion of Iraq, without which, the Invasion definitely would *NOT* have taken place.

There is not one single other reason that you've given, that if it wasn't present or a factor, which would have stopped the Invasion.

What the quotes I pulled show, is how in the past, right up until this thread in fact, you've ridiculed, dismissed and scorned anyone who has brought up the question of oil in relation to the Invasion of Iraq.

And in one particular quote, you said that the Iraq Invasion WOULD have taken place, if Iraq's main export was timber.

*NOW* you're saying that without oil, the U.S. would ignore the Middle East.

What happened to the Humanitarian Mission to spread Freedom and Democracy?

I merely mention the obvious that Oil played a role in the decision process and you think "Aha - I finally got Foota"

No Foota, I didn't.

I'm an intelligent human being, probably one of the most intelligent human beings you'll ever meet in this Life. It's never been about *ME* getting YOU - though I realise that for you, it has always been about YOU "getting" *ME*.

No, I thought: At last! Foota is coming to his senses. He has allowed himself a moment of candour that I can use to demonstrate to HIM (not me, not anyone else), that his position in support of the Bush Administration is intellectually bankrupt.

*I* know how feeble your position has always been. 90% of the =PBF= Community knows how feeble your position is. And the World knows how feeble the Bush Administration's position is.

But *YOU* don't.

And that's a crying shame.

Only a blinkered fool would totally discount the 12 years of history with Iraq, 9/11, and the rise of radical Islam as reasons for enforcing 17 UN resolutions on Iraq in 2003.  Oil certainly played a part for all the reasons I have already described., but it was not the primary reason.

But you have said in this thread that oil WAS the primary reason Foota.

You have said that without Iraqi oil, there would have been no Invasion.

How is that NOT the primary reason for the Invasion.

What other single factor or justification used by you or the Bush Administration to try and legitimise the Invasion of Iraq, if missing, would have halted the Invasion?

We know now that as everyone outside the Bush Administration shouted in unison, that Iraq had no WMD's. The Bush Administration can only have lied about how certain they were that Saddam has WMD's.

There were no WMD's, and more importantly, there *ARE* no WMD's. So why did the Invasion take place, and why does the Occupation continue?

So what single factor, apart from oil, if missing, would have halted the Invasion?

If Oil supply is so urgent that we would make it the primary factor to start unpopular wars, why the hell aren't we drilling for oil in ANWR and off our Coasts?

Are the US Environmentalists more of a challenge to our Congress then "World Opinion"?

You already asked this, in one of the posts of yours I quoted.

I'll give you the same answer:

Because it is easier to kill brown-skinned people, than take on the American Middle Class.

And Foota?

Why *CAN'T* Steelhed and Mad Cat rely on my words?

We're all speaking the same Truth. If you disqualify them from using words to describe that Truth, that I've already used to describe the same, what words *CAN* they use?

Why so insistent that they don't "rely" on *MY* words?

What about the fact that they aren't *MY* words at all: they are the words that describe the Truth that Everyone not in thrall to the Bush Administration knows to be True.

Peace