In Reply To #125

In Reply To #124

What we ARE saying is that you have always dismissed Iraqi oil as nothing more than a circumstantial factor.

Still moving the goal posts Holyman.

I ridiculed (and will continue to ridicule) people like you who were claiming that we went to war only to steal or profit off Iraq's oil.

So you're saying that you went to War not just to steal or profit off Iraqi's oil, but for other reasons too?

Heh - I'm sure that's not what you meant. :)

What do you suppose I meant when I wrote:

Neither I nor anyone else in this thread is accusing you of changing your position to the belief that the U.S. Invasion WAS an oil-grab.

So I wonder why you are defending yourself as though we are?

What we ARE saying is that you have always dismissed Iraqi oil as nothing more than a circumstantial factor. And now, off the back of Greenspan's comments, you have acknowledged that Iraqi oil was and is the central and over-riding factor, without which there would have been no Invasion of Iraq, and the Middle East would be ignored by U.S. Foreign Policy - like "Sub-Saharan Africa".

Now as I understand it from this thread, you are fully backing Greenspan's comments, about the Iraq War being "all about oil".

But you're also adding that it being "all about oil" means its being: all about the nasty and unpleasant things Saddam was doing with those vast oil revenues (that he wasn't getting because of the U.S./U.K. Sanctions Regime...).

In Reply To #126

*sheepishly appears from the shadows*

I don't think Foota is saying that oil is the reason America invaded Iraq, but that oil in Iraq made an already dangerous ideology even more so by making the country wealthy and important on the international stage

*sheepishly ducks back into shadows*

*peeps out of the shadows*

***Holyman reaches a long-arm into the shadows, and pulls 'Slacks out by his collar***

Pay attention 'Slacks! Don't be diverted by Foota's dissembling tactics. Did you miss the following?

You believe that because of the massive revenues that oil provides, it provides funds to Arab and Islamic Terrorists, and other assorted enemies of the United States of America (of which there are legion).

If someone like Saddam Hussein hadn't been able to rely on the oil revenues that being head of the Iraqi State afforded him, he would not have been the threat to the United States, you and the Bush Administration claimed him to be.

Therefore, without oil revenues, Saddam Hussein would have been just another tin-pot dictator, of no real consequence, on a long list of Global tin-pot dictators.

And subsequently, the U.S. would not have invaded Iraq in 2003.

Is that not your position?

Is that not the position you have maintained for some time?

Do you understand that *I* understand what your position is in that respect?

Good.

Do you see now 'Slacks?

No confusion here.

***Holyman gently places 'Slacks back in the shadows, and returns to looking for Foota***

The Humanitarian Mission was an after-thought, tacked on for an attempt at legitimacy and credibility; but basically the Invasion happened because the U.S. wanted the oil that Saddam Hussein had.

See, you are still making the same accusation that the US wanted Saddam's oil.  You are inventing fiction once again.  At least now you are including the caveate "basically" in your reckless charges.

No Foota, I am merely reframing what you have been saying throughout.

• Saddam Hussein had oil

• Saddam Hussein used the revenue from selling that oil, to do things that the U.S. did not want him to do

• Therefore, the U.S. took steps to take away "Saddam Hussein's" oil revenues from him

• If Iraq/Saddam Hussein had no oil, he would have been ignored by the U.S., would still be in power, and would still be committing the Crimes Against Humanity that you have always PREVIOUSLY maintained was the central and primary reason for the Invasion of Iraq.

Look, you do it again here:

Speaking of fiction, your comment about the humanitarian mission as merely being an "after-thought" is easily debunked by 2 minutes Googling.

Perhaps you should stop getting your information from the media filter and look at the source documents?  I can not think of more high profile speeches for the President to articulate his goals then the Address to the UN and State of the Union Address.  Both of which were made before the war even started.

2002 Address to the UN:

.

The United States has no quarrel with the Iraqi people; they've suffered too long in silent captivity. Liberty for the Iraqi people is a great moral cause, and a great strategic goal. The people of Iraq deserve it; the security of all nations requires it. Free societies do not intimidate through cruelty and conquest, and open societies do not threaten the world with mass murder. The United States supports political and economic liberty in a unified Iraq.

Last year, the U.N. Commission on Human Rights found that Iraq continues to commit extremely grave violations of human rights, and that the regime's repression is all pervasive. Tens of thousands of political opponents and ordinary citizens have been subjected to arbitrary arrest and imprisonment, summary execution, and torture by beating and burning, electric shock, starvation, mutilation, and rape. Wives are tortured in front of their husbands, children in the presence of their parents -- and all of these horrors concealed from the world by the apparatus of a totalitarian state.

.

http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2002/09/20020912-1.html

.

2003 State of the Union Address

.

Iraqi refugees tell us how forced confessions are obtained -- by torturing children while their parents are made to watch. International human rights groups have catalogued other methods used in the torture chambers of Iraq: electric shock, burning with hot irons, dripping acid on the skin, mutilation with electric drills, cutting out tongues, and rape. If this is not evil, then evil has no meaning. (Applause.)

And tonight I have a message for the brave and oppressed people of Iraq: Your enemy is not surrounding your country -- your enemy is ruling your country. (Applause.) And the day he and his regime are removed from power will be the day of your liberation. (Applause.)

.

http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2003/01/20030128-19.html

And yet:

In Reply To #73

In Reply To #59

In Reply To #54

Straight question Foota:

Would the U.S. have invaded Iraq in 2003, if Iraq didn't have the huge oil and gas deposits it has?

Nope.

Because oil revenue is what made Iraq (under Saddam) so dangerous for the reasons I have detailed 2 times already on this thread.

So despite all the non-oil revenue related horrors Bush speaks about in the two addresses you quote above:

THE INVASION OF IRAQ WOULD *NOT* HAVE TAKEN PLACE, BUT FOR THE PRESENCE OF IRAQI OIL

Really Foota, this isn't a question of *ME* "moving the goalposts".

It is a question of YOU not even being able to comprehend what The Game is.

My position has been as consistent as, up until this thread, yours was.

Control of Iraqi Oil - ensuring no-one outside of the U.S. sphere of interests got or gets to control Iraqi Oil - is the PRIMARY and over-riding factor in the U.S. Invasion of Iraq.

As explicitly defined and called for in PNAC; and exactly as Alan Greenspan has recently described.

The (failed) "Humanitarian Mission" in Iraq would not have even begun, but for the presence of Iraqi Oil.

So all of Bush's lurid and voyeuristic descriptions of Hussein's barbarity, are utterly beside the point.

You do *NOT* need massive oil revenues, to be a bloodthirsty dictator, keeping "your" People violently oppressed.

But you *DO* need to keep the Middle East Oil Spigot flowing, if you have built an Economy and Way of Life around the unrestrained consumption of hydrocarbons.

Humanitarian considerations are an irrelevancy that would not have solely prompted or justified the Invasion of Iraq.

Keeping Middle East oil flowing cheaply towards the United States is the PRIMARY consideration.

And as Greenspan points out - and you claim to agree with him:

Everyone knows this.

Peace