In Reply To #52

In Reply To #51

I have written thousands of posts around here Mad Cat.

Go see if you can dig up one single quote where I said that oil had nothing to do with Iraq?

Just one.

The problem you've got Foota, is that you have communicated too clearly and effectively what your position is in the past.

Whilst Mad Cat might trawl to no avail through the archives of your posts to find an incriminating statement or two, it's kind of irrelevant what he does or doesn't dig up.

Overall, you have been consistent in your position, and have consistently communicated - with greater clarity than any other member of the =PBF= Right Wing - what your position is.

I wouldn't rule out the Cat's finding a specific statement to contradict what you've written above, but I think it unlikely. I've always taken the meta-view of your overall position, and not bothered with the micro-analysis too much, and I understand your position with regards to the oil in Iraq.

And that is that whilst you have never denied that Iraqi oil is an incidental or contributing factor to the U.S. Invasion and Occupation of Iraq; you have always dismissed oil as being the PRIMARY FACTOR in the U.S. War on Iraq.

The about-turn you have taken in this thread, is to concede that Iraqi oil was and is the PRIMARY REASON for the U.S. Invasion and Occupation of Iraq.

Simply: you have acknowledged that without the presence of Iraqi Oil, the U.S. would *NOT* have invaded Iraq.

There is no single other factor that if it had not been present, would have halted the Invasion.

The "Humanitarian Mission [sic]" (failing miserably as it is): was/is the INCIDENTAL FACTOR.

Iraqi Oil was the PRIMARY FACTOR.

Now, in addition to getting over this fundamental change of position as rapidly as you can Foota, you need to understand that you are just realising what Everyone in the Rest of the World - *ESPECIALLY IRAQIS* - have understood for much longer.

Understand that the primary reason for the failure of the U.S.'s Humanitarian Mission in Iraq: is that *NO-ONE TRUSTS THE UNITED STATES - ESPECIALLY IRAQIS*.

And this because, whilst Everyone Else has always known what was True:

*IT WAS POLITICALLY INCONVENIENT FOR THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION (and you Foota) TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT TRUTH*

For this reason, the Iraqis have never Trusted and *WILL NEVER TRUST* the Bush Administration.

Because Iraqis have always none that, but for their oil wealth, the U.S. would *NOT* have Invaded and unleashed Hell on their Nation.

Now that you have acknowledged it: you need to move on quickly and reassess your whole perspective; a perspective that has, up to now, been based on subconsciously *DENYING* that Truth.

And let's see if we can't clear the Mess up in Mesopotamia.

Peace