I think your problem here Foota, is that you imagine that I view my participation here at =PBF= as you do.

I don't.

I'm here to discuss The Truth with the other members of the =PBF= Community; and through discussing The Truth, to try and find out exactly what the fucking Truth really is.

I don't insult the intelligence of the other posters by being dishonest with myself or them; and I don't see my participation in this Community to be about scoring points over anyone else, or asserting my ideological supremacy.

What would be the point?

Here's the deal Foota:

As I have acknowledged on at least two separate occasions in this thread, I *KNOW* what your position is regarding the oil in Iraq and the Middle East, and its relationship to U.S. Foreign Policy.

You believe that because of the massive revenues that oil provides, it provides funds to Arab and Islamic Terrorists, and other assorted enemies of the United States of America (of which there are legion).

If someone like Saddam Hussein hadn't been able to rely on the oil revenues that being head of the Iraqi State afforded him, he would not have been the threat to the United States, you and the Bush Administration claimed him to be.

Therefore, without oil revenues, Saddam Hussein would have been just another tin-pot dictator, of no real consequence, on a long list of Global tin-pot dictators.

And subsequently, the U.S. would not have invaded Iraq in 2003.

Is that not your position?

Is that not the position you have maintained for some time?

Do you understand that *I* understand what your position is in that respect?

Good.

Now, throughout our dialogue together, you have consistently maintained that the purpose of the Invasion of Iraq was NOT to grab, take control of, or otherwise take advantage of Iraqi oil resources.

Rather, you have insisted that the Invasion was always primarily a Humanitarian Mission, intended to benefit the Iraqi People, by considerably enhancing their Way of Life.

Furthermore, you have ridiculed, poured scorn on and vilified anyone who brought up the subject of Iraqi oil, as the primary motivation for the U.S. Invasion; and dismissed any mention of Iraqi oil out-of-hand.

Am I getting anything wrong so far?

I didn't think so.

And that brings us to this thread.

Recall that when I first posted in this thread, I merely pointed out that the most crucial aspect of Greenspan's statement, was the acknowledgement that "Everyone knows" the War on Iraq was about oil.

And I casually acknowledged that even YOU admitted this.

To me, the real "story" about Greenspan's comments, where his comments about the political inconvenience of acknowledging what "Everyone knows".

And then Mad Cat called you out.

And you responded with a hostile, Evil-Fitch-style evasiveness and offensiveness, and challenged Mad Cat to trawl through your posts to find an incriminating quote.

(Why would he bother?)

I then explained to you that your problem wasn't individual posts or quotes, but that your overall position is so well known and clarified. Mad Cat wasn't recalling a specific post or quote to call you out: he was simply observing what your consistent and stated position has been, with regards to Iraqi oil being a factor in the U.S. decision to invade.

I then went on to explain how your position had changed, by your elevation of the Iraqi oil factor, to the PRIMARY reason for the Invasion.

And I think this is the bit that your really not getting.

With statements such as "without oil, the Middle East would be ignored", and without Iraqi oil, there would have been no Invasion: you elevated the factor of Iraqi oil to primary importance in the decision to invade.

This in and of itself doesn't produce the inconsistency that you're now taking a hammering for.

What *DOES* create the inconsistency, and in fact, *IS* the inconsistency: is how much *YOU* have ridiculed and dismissed discussion on the *CENTRAL IMPORTANCE* of Iraqi Oil, to the whole Iraq War debate around here.

Neither I nor anyone else in this thread is accusing you of changing your position to the belief that the U.S. Invasion WAS an oil-grab.

So I wonder why you are defending yourself as though we are?

What we ARE saying is that you have always dismissed Iraqi oil as nothing more than a circumstantial factor. And now, off the back of Greenspan's comments, you have acknowledged that Iraqi oil was and is the central and over-riding factor, without which there would have been no Invasion of Iraq, and the Middle East would be ignored by U.S. Foreign Policy - like "Sub-Saharan Africa".

*EVERYTHING* you have ever said in defence of the Iraq War, has been about its being a Humanitarian Mission.

*NOW* you are saying that without Iraqi Oil, there would have been no Humanitarian Mission.

Am I correct or not?

I know I'm correct, because you confirmed, when I asked you a straight question, that there would have been no Invasion of Iraq, without Iraqi oil.

You spin that as meaning that Iraqi oil made Saddam Hussein a threat who had to be neutralised.

And *I* hear that as meaning:

The Humanitarian Mission was an after-thought, tacked on for an attempt at legitimacy and credibility; but basically the Invasion happened because the U.S. wanted the oil that Saddam Hussein had.

If Saddam Hussein hadn't had all that oil, he could have stayed in power, and carried on kicking the shit out of the Iraqi People.

Do you see *NOW* why you've been called out?

Just don't think it's me that has called you out.

I could give a fuck what your previous positions have or haven't been: I'm only interested in what your position is now. If you're going to evolve your ideas at last, allow broader and more common sense ideas to enter that thick skull of yours: GREAT! I'm not going to crow about it, or give you any reason to Fear doing that, I'm just going to get on with The Flow.

All I've done above, and in my previous posts, is show things the way they are.

As you reminded me just recently: it's nothing Personal.

Peace