[quote=Foota21178388][quote=Holyman_2012][color=blue]The reason why that "story" is pure propaganda Foota, is because it paints a rosy picture of what everyone knows is a diabolical situation.

1 million dead Iraqis Foota; 4 million displaced; ALL of them living in Fear of Death on a Daily Basis;  more U.S. soldiers killed this year, than in any previous year of the "War".[/color][/quote]

[color=red]Coming from the king of Propaganda.

If "1 million" Iraqis died since 2003, we would have to see an excess of 17,000 dead Iraqis [b]every single month[/b].

Show me one credible news report confirming 17,000 deaths in a single month.  Then see if you can find reports [b]showing 17,000 Iraqi deaths for 57 consecutive months.[/b]  The highest report for Iraqi deaths in a single month was back during the major sectarian fighting in 2006 and was less then 4,000.

No one buys the 1 million statistical projection from Lancet except propagandists like you.[/color][/quote]

Yawn...

Yeah, you know, we covered this a while back Foota.

The reason I use - and will continue to use - the 1,000,000 figure, is because it is a nice, round, symbolic figure; but mostly because you get so upset when I use it. :)

As far as I'm concerned, the number of Iraqis that have died as a direct result of the U.S. Invasion and Occupation of Iraq, is likely to be somewhere between half a million and a million. This based on multiple, often conflicting accounts, but taking no regard of what the Bush Administration would like the World to think.

And as you also know, I'm just talking about the number of Iraqis that have died needlessly, as a result of the Occupation, including: those killed by U.S. Forces; those killed by sectarian factions; those that have died as a result of there being no medical care available in Iraq; and those that have died from malnutrition and other reasons related to the complete destruction of the Iraqi Social Infrastructure.

The "Iraq Bodycount" index tabulates only those deaths that are reported in the Media; and as we both know, media reports from Iraq are restricted by the fact that most reporters become part of those statistics, if they try to do their jobs in Iraq.

But really, it's of no great importance what the actual number is; suffice to say that the actual number - whatever it is - is far higher than it needed to have been.

Your big problem is that even if it could be conclusively proved that only say, 100,000 Iraqis had died as a result of the Invasion and Occupation, that would still be too high a price to pay for what has (or rather hasn't) been achieved by the U.S. in Iraq.

You've also got the problem of at least 4 million displaced Iraqis to deal with; and of course the undeniable fact that virtually every Iraqi lives every day of their life (since the Invasion), in Fear of death.

Whatever way you come at it, there is no metric for the amount of human suffering caused by the U.S. Invasion of Iraq, which can paint a positive picture of the U.S. Invasion and Occupation. Even if the average monthly death toll in Iraq fell to zero tomorrow (which of course it won't), that still won't be a sign of success, because of the number of actual humans who have actually already been killed, actually. But since there is no end in sight, I guess that actually, the precise number - whatever it turns out to be - of Iraqi Deaths is just going to keep on increasing.

No Foota, if its all the same to you, I'll stick with the 1,000,000 figure. Mostly because the opposition and indignation it produces in you and your idols in the White House, suggests it has got to be uncomfortably close to the Truth that even you have to acknowledge at some level. Since it is highly unlikely your cognitive dissonance will allow you to get close to accepting anywhere near the True figure.

You and I can argue the toss all the live long day about what the exact number of Iraqi deaths (as a result of the U.S. Invasion and Occupation) is, but in addition to being rather insensitive, its all rather besides the point: it's just a number.

If the numbers we were discussing were divided by 10 - me stating 100,000 and you stating just 10,000 - we'd still be having exactly the same argument.

The U.S. Invasion and Occupation of Iraq has created far more misery and suffering for Iraqis in four and a half years, than they suffered in 25 years of Saddam Hussein's rule.

At least whilst under Saddam's rule, the Iraqis could always live in hope that one day the International Community - or some self-sacrificing, altruistic single member of the U.N. - might come in and oust Saddam.

Who can liberate the Iraqis from military occupation by the United States of America?

Peace