In Reply To #42

In Reply To #41

Hopefully Holyman has something more entertaining to do today.

Wish I did.

More entertained by my Family, possibly...

Sorry: mixture of World Cup Rugby; Nintendo Wii; and a dose of gastric flu have kept me out of radio contact... :)

Right, first things first: I'm no fan of Greenspan's.

Personally, I think he's just trying to curry favour with the Plebians, because this whole economic debacle we're about to go through is largely of his making...

(There won't be a word in his book about the irresponsibility of keeping interest rates artificially below the rate of inflation...)

Anyhoo, here's the statement from Greenspan:

"I am saddened that it is politically inconvenient to acknowledge what everyone knows: the Iraq war is largely about oil."

And that's the key part of the statement:

It is politically inconvenient to acknowledge what everyone knows.

See, Greenspan isn't claiming or trying to promote the idea that the Iraq War was/is about oil. He's not that stupid. He knows, as well as Everyone, that it was only ever about oil.

What saddens Greenspan, is how this can not be acknowledged, because of the political and diplomatic damage it would cause to the Bush Administration, and the U.S. as a whole, since this Truth has been denied for so long.

See, Greenspan isn't making any judgement call about the Iraq War being about oil; he's not implying that it is "bad" or "wrong" that the War is/was about oil.

All he's saying is that it saddens him that this Truth can not and will not be acknowledged.

Perhaps he feels, like me, that acknowledging and accepting the Truth about the War on Iraq, is the first step to recovering from the mess created by the Bush Administration in Mesopotamia.

That the Invasion of Iraq was about oil, and the ongoing Occupation of Iraq is about oil, is not in dispute.

Even our own Foota doesn't dispute it:

In Reply To #16

If the ME did not have oil, they would be as relevant as sub-Saharan Africa.  And just as ignored.

There you have it.

If Iraq did not sit atop the oil and gas reserves it does: the Bush Administration would *NOT* have invaded.

See, the idea that has always been fed to the American Public - and consumed unquestioningly by the likes of Foota, Vax, Clay Moore et al - is this:

If Iraq had been an island in the Indian Ocean, with the same demographics, the same ethnic and sectarian divisions, and the same ruthless bastard in charge; *AND* its main natural resource and export were bananas...

Then the U.S. would still have invaded.

In other words: the presence of vast quantities of oil reserves in Iraq is merely incidental to the "Humanitarian Mission" being conducted there (unilaterally) by the United States.

Now, the key thing about the Iraq War, as with the Vietnam War, is that its Chief Antagonist - the U.S. Government - needs to retain a veneer of International Legitimacy.

It is the need for this plausible credibility that hobbles the United States in its Imperial Ambitions. It is the self-restraining expediencies of pluralistic Democracy, which constrains the U.S. Government from doing whatever it wants to try and ensure Total Victory and Domination.

If the USG wanted to, it could exterminate more or less the entire population of Iraq overnight.

But that wouldn't look very good for the U.S.

Equally, had the USG solely invaded and occupied Iraq's oil-producing regions, and ignored the rest of the country: that also would not have looked very good for the U.S.

So it packaged the Iraqi Oil-grab as first a Security Mission ("to eliminate the threat posed to U.S. National Security by Saddam Hussein [sic]"), and when that didn't pan out, as a Humanitarian Mission to try and bring Peace and Love to the Middle East.

But this packaging was intended to be consumed *ONLY* be domestic U.S. voters. It just needed to be plausible enough to get the American People behind *STARTING* the War. And keep being plausible long enough to get the Bush Administration re-elected in 2004, and ideally, a Republican Congress re-elected in 2006.

Now that the mid-terms are over, the only people who need to keep the pretence going about the necessity of a military presence in Iraq, are mainstream Presidential Candidates who don't want to give their opponents a chance to make them look weak on National Security.

Round about this point in my post, the Brownshirts will be champing at the bit to point out that "if" the Iraq War WAS about oil, then it has been a complete failure so far.

Well yes, it has been a failure, but only a partial one.

The Invasion and Occupation of Iraq was meant to be (planned for being) a "Cakewalk War". The Bush Administration believed that Iraqis would welcome them with open arms for liberating them from Saddam Hussein.

What the Iraqis *ACTUALLY* did, in one form or another, was say: Thanks for getting rid of Hussein; could you leave our country now please.

And, well, you know the rest...

But where the Invasion and Occupation of Iraq *HAS* been a success, albeit only partial, is in ensuring that the U.S. has overall CONTROL of Iraqi Oil.

The "Big Oil" Interests represented by the Bush Administration may not yet have secured ownership of Iraqi Oil; but all the while that Chaos reigns in Iraq, and there is a U.S. military presence there, no other interests can control or own Iraqi Oil.

That means the Russians and Chinese primarily; but God Forbid that Iraqi Oil might fall into the hands of the Iraqi People, via a Hugo Chavez style populist leader...

Point is that while Hell rages above the oil-fields: NO-ONE is getting at it.

And that is a better strategic situation for the U.S. Government and the Oil Industry, than having Russia, China, Venezuela or Iran developing the oil-fields.

All that Alan Greenspan is saying with his statement, is that it is high time that the U.S. Body Politic stop pretending that the War and U.S. Presence in Iraq is about anything other than oil.

Whichever way you cut it, the Society and State of Iraq have been destroyed by the U.S. Invasion. The lifestyles of the average Iraqi, already meagre and oppressed under Saddam Hussein, have deteriorated into a Living Hell.

The U.S. Mission was *NEVER* Humanitarian: it was *ALWAYS* a geo-strategic ploy to strengthen the U.S. economically and militarily.

Everyone knows that; Everyone knew it; and Everyone will begin to increasingly understand and acknowledge that now. This because as the Term-Clock counts down, the personal interests of the individuals in the Bush Administration, will sharply and increasingly diverge form the interests of the American People, and the World as a Whole.

Peace