In Reply To #130

In Reply To #128

Pay attention 'Slacks! Don't be diverted by Foota's dissembling tactics.

Heh :)

The thing is, although I completely understand how oil provided Saddam's regime with the resources needed to be a threat, I'm not reading anything in Foota's writing that says that America invaded Iraq to grab said oil for themselves, or deny to others.

Uh, yes, you are.

You are reading - and have clarified and repeated yourself - that the Invasion of Iraq was intended to DENY SADDAM HUSSEIN access to Iraqi Oil.

And all the other assorted "Enemies of the United States" in the Middle East.

This is Greenspan's position; and, through this thread, it has now become Foota's principal position.

In short:

The United States did not like what Saddam Hussein was doing with Iraqi oil revenue - just as it does not like what Iran is doing with Iranian Oil Revenues - and so it invaded Iraq to take those oil revenues OUT of Saddam Hussein's hands.

And by coincidence (of course), put those oil revenues under the control of the United States; which apparently knows better what to do with Iraqi oil revenues, than Saddam Hussein - or if it gets its way with the PSA's, the Iraqi People.

This IS what Foota is now saying.

The Invasion of Iraq was primarily to remove Iraqi oil revenues from the control of Saddam Hussein; who was (apparently) using those oil revenues (discounting the Sanctions Regime, of course) for despicable purposes.

This is what Greenspan and Foota (now) are saying.

Now Foota doesn't see anything wrong with this: which is why he's kicking at goal-posts that are on a completely different playing field than the ones I'm aiming for.

As far as he is concerned, it was morally appropriate, and indeed morally imperative that the United States invade Iraq to take Iraqi oil revenues OUT of Saddam's control.

This based on the assumption that the Iraqi oil revenues are better and more safely controlled by the U.S., than by Saddam Hussein, or any other ideological enemy of Western Civilisation.

And just as soon as the Iraqi People can agree a method of controlling Iraqi oil revenue that accords with the requirements and insistence of the United States: the U.S. will hand back control of Iraqi oil revenue to the Iraqis; so that they in turn, can hand over that control to the Global Oil Corporations, through "Production Sharing Agreements".

Successful passage of the U.S. authored and sponsored PSA's, is the primary benchmark being used by the Bush Administration to measure its "progress" with the Iraq Mission.

But in the meantime, Iraqi oil production and revenues, remains under the control of the United States.

Something that was always going to be the case, regardless of the "noble", and probably unrealistic ambitions of the U.S.

In short:

The U.S. is deciding who gets to control Iraqi oil revenue.

If oil revenues are used by any Middle Eastern Nation in a way that the U.S. disapproves of, or which plausibly threatens U.S. lifestyles: then the U.S. has demonstrated its willingness to unilaterally and illegally invade Middle Easter Nations, to take control of those oil revenues.

Not sure I can make it any clearer than that... :)

Peace