In Reply To #135

In Reply To #131

This IS what Foota is now saying.

The Invasion of Iraq was primarily to remove Iraqi oil revenues from the control of Saddam Hussein; who was (apparently) using those oil revenues (discounting the Sanctions Regime, of course) for despicable purposes.

Oh dear, still at this?  Superslacks has it right Holyman.

I know.

He pointed out what I've already pointed out on at least 3 separate occasions now.

But what he DID get before slinking back off to the shadows of this thread (and who can blame him for that?), but which you will NOT allow yourself to get: is that you are now admitting that the U.S. Invasion of Iraq was carried out to take control of Iraqi oil revenues from Saddam Hussein.

If Saddam Hussein had no oil revenues, Iraq would NOT have been invaded, no matter how despicably Saddam was treating the Iraqi Population or threatening Iraq's neighbours.

Your admission of this in this thread is what has brought us to the pass we now find ourselves at.

The United States invaded Iraq to take control of Iraqi oil revenue from Saddam Hussein.

This because the U.S. claimed that such revenues as Saddam could get for Iraqi oil, by hook or by crook, he was using irresponsibly and threateningly.

The United States did not want Saddam Hussein controlling Iraqi oil revenues.

So the U.S. invaded Iraq to take over control of Iraqi oil production and revenues, from Saddam Hussein.

The single factor that would have prevented the U.S. Invasion of Iraq, would have been the absence of Iraqi oil reserves and the revenues from it that Saddam was controlling.

So all the talk of a Humanitarian Mission is just window dressing for the Plebs.

Without Iraqi oil, Saddam Hussein could have been an even bigger bastard than he was, and the U.S. would not have lifted a finger to help Iraqis, let alone invade.

This really is a very simple concept to grasp.

It is, after all, the conceptual basis of your (current) position: you are just refusing to see it for what it is.

Peace