In Reply To #11

Still waiting for those "dividends" from the first Gulf War Sid.  Enforcing UN sanctions and no fly zones ain't cheap, particularly when most of the free world outsources UN police work to the big bad US.

You fancy yourself pretty quick with math - right Sid?

Do the numbers, and tell me how long it will take America to "steal, control, privatise" Iraq's oil just to get our last 4 year's worth of "investment" back.

30 year ROI?  50 year ROI?  100 year ROI?

Here is your starting point.

http://costofwar.com/

Real numbers please, you and Holyman's hunches and obvious prejudices don't count.

Well, let's see then.

That website has the cost of the war atm @ $433.7 billion and change.

Tell you what, since I'm feeling generous, I'll round that up to a cool half trillion - $500 billion.

(And don't say I never give you anything!)

Now then, don't know about you, but I got oil at about $70 per barrel and rising:

http://www.bloomberg.com/energy/

But, the "Oil Law" being forced on the Iraqi Government by the U.S. Government only calls for about 75% of the Iraqi Oil Industry to be handed over to private U.S. corporations; so, for ease of math, to allow for production costs, and because my generosity knows no bounds, let's say that U.S. corporations will only make $50 per barrel of Iraqi Oil.

So, with $500 billion to recoup, and making $50 per barrel, U.S. corporations will have to produce and sell...  10,000,000,000 (10 billion) barrels of oil to get "your" last 4 year's worth of "investment" back (not including out-of-pocket-expenses still owing from Gulf War I...).

Now Iraqi oil production is currently just over 1 million barrels a day; but assuming Total Peace descends on Iraq tomorrow (I'm sure it's only a matter of Time...), let's imagine that with foreign assistance, the Iraqi's manage to start producing 2 million barrels a day - like what they used to before the U.S. Invasion.

So at 2 million barrels a day, and the U.S. needing to produce 10 billion barrels to recoup their, uh, "investment"...

It's gonna take 5,000 days.

Or:

Just over 13 and a half years.

Assuming the price of oil doesn't rise above $70 (which it is unlikely to do, unless the U.S. does something really stupid like attack Iran - or gets Israel to do it for them).

And assuming that with foreign ownership, Iraq's production capacity doesn't rise above the 2 million barrels a day they managed under Saddam Hussein.

Tell you what, given who I'm talking to, why don't I make it a more conservative estimate, of around 15 years.

Now, my question for you Foota:

How long are the contracts that the U.S. Government insists the Iraqi Government offers U.S. oil firms?

Peace