In Reply To #70

In Reply To #59

The core basis for your hatred (and the basis of the hatred expressed by the Middle Eastern and Anglo-Saxon violent sociopaths in our World), is the belief that different ideas in different human beings' minds, somehow make them a socially and / or physically distinct species from the haters.

Correct me if I am wrong Holyman, but I believe you have written on this forum that much of Sharia Law is unenlightened and primitive.  I don't believe you have ever made a spirited defense of the progressive or "Humanists" values of Sharia.  You just don't think it is a threat to Western civilization - right?

There is no "Western Civilisation".

Sharia Law presents no existential threat to the cultures and societies in the Western Hemisphere.

You can't simultaneously describe cultures and societies that practice archaic religious legislation as Medieval (which they are), AND describe those same cultures as a physical / military threat to the existence of modern society.

Either these societies are backward, unsophisticated and anachronistic; or they are capable of competing economically, militarily and culturally with the Modern World.

You get too hung up on intent Foota.

A lot of Islamic Arabs HATE the "West" with a capital "F". If they had their way, they'd exterminate every non-Muslim in the World, and then probably move on to every non-Arab in the World.

Equally, a lot of fundamentalist Christians, if they had their way, would exterminate every homosexual (amongst other minority groups) in the World; and then probably move on to every non-Fundamentalist Christian in the World.

And, of course, if I had my way, every woman in the World over the age of 21 would be required to sleep with me at least once in their lifetime. And I'd probably move on to the under-21's after that.

Now, compare and contrast those intentions, with the CAPABILITY and PROPENSITY of Western, secular nations, to project organised military violence on weaker nations.

Of course, the "West" has no INTENTION of randomly and barbarically imposing violence on weaker nations; it just happens that sometimes there is no choice.

(That's how it works, isn't it?)

So on the one hand we have (some of the) Arabs in the Middle East who want to take revenge for all the violence they perceive the West has inflicted upon them; but they completely lack the capability to do so.

And on the other hand, we have (some people in) the "West", whose noble values and virtues forbid them from engaging in or promoting the idea of offensive and unnecessary violence; but with an indomitable capacity for military violence that could wipe out the Whole World (and easily any Third World culture) at the push of a button.

And you gauge the INTENTIONS of a minority of Islamic radicals to be of a greater existential threat to Human Civilisation, than the infinitely more powerful CAPACITY for and RECORD of organised violence of the "West".

If Sharia Law only "resided in the minds" of a few Radical Islamists living in caves, I would not care.  However, we have seen the application of Sharia Law increase dramatically in Africa and the Middle East in the last 2 decades - leaving millions of women (and religious minorities) to the misogynist and intolerant traditions of 7th Century tribal Bedouin law.

You think YOU'VE got it bad! How'd you think I feel?!?

If the belief in the efficacy of organised and unnecessary violence only "resided in the minds" of a few half-baked Internet reactionaries, I would not care. However, we have seen the application of pre-emptive and preventive War increase dramatically in the World, in the last decade - leaving millions of humans dead, damaged, displaced and diseased.

To legitimise this ignorant and reactionary position, various attempts are made to quantify an individual or culture's "worth" to Human Society. These attempts involve delineating human beings based on their race, ethnicity and / or religion. ANY justification will suffice, so long as it creates a sense of separation between one group of human beings and another, no matter how specious or completely erroneous that justification is.

I can't speak for others on this forum, but my many complaints about Radical Islam has nothing to do with race or ethnicity.  After all, Al Qaeda is a mix of races and nationalities.  My complaints are specifically about their actions and how they use their interpretation of religion to spread a supremacist notion of Islam.

No Foota, you may occasionally over-simplify complex cultural and sociological issues to the point of absurdity; but you are not a mindless or ignorant bigot.

Peace