In Reply To #87

In Reply To #82

Sharia Law presents no existential threat to the cultures and societies in the Western Hemisphere.

There is a Western Hemisphere but not a unique "Western Civilization" or Culture?  : )

Correct.

"Western Hemisphere" refers to a geographical partitioning of the World.

Within the Western Hemisphere, there are many diverse cultures and societies. There is no single culture or Civilisation in the Western Civilisation.

You and many others regularly demarcate American society and its culture from European society and culture, do you not?

Even within the United States border, you delineate between Conservative and Liberal cultures. Hell, there's even a difference between Country & Western musical cultures apparently.

Virtually all Human cultures (with the possible exception of a few South Seas cannibalistic or cargo-worshipping cultures) are represented by Human beings living in the Western Hemisphere.

So tell me, Mr. Smiley, what are the unique characteristics of Western Civilisation and Culture? :)

At any rate, you don't seem too worried about the millions and millions of women (and non-Muslims) who are facing more and more draconian Muslim policies in Africa and SE Asia. Long before 9/11 or the Iraq war (thanks to Saudi Wahabbi money) Muslims in Africa are becoming more fundamental and more intolerant.

I'm not sure I would bother to dispute that claim Foota. But the difference between you and I, I think, is that you see fundamentalism and intolerance on the rise only amongst the Islamic cultures you have been directed to perceive this rise in.As far as I can tell, you are also directed to see the rise of this fundamentalism and intolerance only as the result of Islamic religious theology.

Now, unlike you (apparently), I haven't read the Koran in its original Arabic, so I'm not as well versed on the particular nuances within Islamic scripture that make it any more intolerant than any other religious screed.

I do know that there is no such thing as a Fundamentalist Muslim however. So I can't help but think that if you're wrong about Muslim being Fundamentalist, then maybe you might also be wrong about the extraordinarily distinctive levels of intolerance within Islamic scripture.

What I think is more likely, is that you have latched on (as directed), to a tiny minority of radical Muslims who are choosing to interpret Islamic scripture in an extremist fashion; to the chagrin and repugnance not just of non-Muslims, but the vast majority of Muslims who do actually know what the fuck they're talking about when they refer to the Islamic religion; and who of course, are far more blighted by the activities carried out by extremists in the name of Islam, than you or I.

It is a stock facet of History that extremist interpretations of religion always emerge amongst horribly oppressed societies. Just as you have many poverty-stricken Muslims attracted to extremist Islamic sects; you have many poverty-stricken Americans flocking around Fundamentalist and equally extremist Christian sects.

Really Foota, I'm not trying to deny the existence of extremist Muslims, nor trying to deny the many and egregious iniquities carried out in the name of Islam throughout the World.

But what I am trying to say is that the violence and oppression you are talking about is by no means restricted to Islamic cultures, and can therefore not be a quality unique to Islam.

You know, given your predilection to jump on the latest cultural demonisation band-wagon; if we'd been having this conversation sixty years ago, you would have been talking about Jewish extremists and terrorists. And given my sensibilities, I would almost certainly have been trying to get you to understand why the Stern Gang (amongst others) was doing what it was doing.

And doubtlessly, in your typically obtuse manner, you would have read my attempts to understand Jewish extremism and terrorism, as an attempt to justify their actions.

I can't reiterate this point enough: THIS HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH ISLAM.

Zionist terrorism had nothing to do with Judaism; Fundamentalist intolerance has nothing to do with Christianity. American militarism and Wars of Aggression having nothing to do with Freedom and Democracy.

You can't simultaneously describe cultures and societies that practice archaic religious legislation as Medieval (which they are), AND describe those same cultures as a physical / military threat to the existence of modern society.

Sure I can.  Nukes are the great equalizer.  Most of the archaic and Medieval Muslim/Arab regimes (using your words) would not have these weapons if they did not happen to sit on a sea of oil.

No Arab regimes have nuclear weapons.

The only Muslim regime that has nuclear weapons is Pakistan.

Pakistan is an ally of the United States.

How ARE things looking in nuclear-armed Pakistan right now Foota?

They did not have to go through the cultural and scientific evolution (reformation?) to gain this knowledge, they simply bought it using their oil resources. Do you think Iran could be this far in their nuke program without Russian technology and help?

Yes.

Iran's nuclear energy programme was begun by the United States in the 1960's and 1970's, through its puppet dictator the Shah of Iran.

Following the Islamic Revolution in 1979, when all but a handful of Americans (those kept hostage) were kicked out of Iran, the Ayatollah Khomeini suspended the programme.

Iran's nuclear energy programme was restarted only recently, because the rise in oil prices made it expedient to reduce Iranian domestic consumption of oil that could be sold.

If the Iranians hadn't kicked the United States out of their country in 1979, the Iranian nuclear energy programme would have been completed in the mid-1980's.

So ironically, the Islamic Revolution in Iran actually delayed the Iranian "nuke" programme, didn't it Foota.

A lot of Islamic Arabs HATE the "West" with a capital "F". If they had their way, they'd exterminate every non-Muslim in the World, and then probably move on to every non-Arab in the World.

Equally, a lot of fundamentalist Christians, if they had their way, would exterminate every homosexual (amongst other minority groups) in the World; and then probably move on to every non-Fundamentalist Christian in the World.

Oh please Holyman don't try to make this lame comparison.  It is patently silly - IMO.

Why do you think that Foota?

Peace