In Reply To #58

wrong. the west will always be the golden age. i dont see the ragheads making a comeback in this millenium.

I don't know if I've ever ran into a less informed person on this forum.

Yup, it's difficult to make that kind of judgement call around here...

AV has to be a strong contender though. :)

Right then, all you ignorant little fucktards who've never moved more than 25 miles away from their place of birth:

The core basis for your hatred (and the basis of the hatred expressed by the Middle Eastern and Anglo-Saxon violent sociopaths in our World), is the belief that different ideas in different human beings' minds, somehow make them a socially and / or physically distinct species from the haters.

To legitimise this ignorant and reactionary position, various attempts are made to quantify an individual or culture's "worth" to Human Society. These attempts involve delineating human beings based on their race, ethnicity and / or religion. ANY justification will suffice, so long as it creates a sense of separation between one group of human beings and another, no matter how specious or completely erroneous that justification is.

Islam is the same religion as Judaism.

Islam, Christianity and Judaism spring from the same source: Abraham.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abrahamic_religion

All three Abrahamic sects worship exactly the same "God"; they just worship "Him" in different ways.

There is no wider gulf between Islam and Judaism than there is between Calvinism and Mormonism.

"Semitic" was originally a lexical term, not an ethnic or racial term. It has become an ethno-cultural term only recently.

Judaism is a Semitic religion; Hebrews are culturally Semitic people. Judaism was founded in and is centred round the Middle East.

Christianity is a Semitic religion, obviously; a Jewish cult / sect / off-shoot. Jesus was Jewish. Paul, who founded the Roman Catholic Church, was a Roman Citizen, not a Jew. He argued with Jesus' brother, James, about whether or not Christians should observe Jewish Law. James said that Christians were Jews, and Jesus never advocated the rejection or non-observance of Jewish Law. Paul said you didn't need to be Jewish to be a Christian. Christianity was founded in and is centred round the Middle East.

Islam is a Semitic religion. It is a development of Jewish-Christianity. The Koran is the "Third Testament". Arabs are culturally Semitic people. Islam was founded in and is centred round the Middle East.

Anyone can become a Christian.

Anyone can become a Muslim.

Any sincere convert can become a Jew.

There is no ethnic difference between the majority of Jews and the majority of Middle Eastern Arabs.

There are very few cultural differences between Jews and Middle Eastern & Arab Muslims.

If you are neither a Jew, a Christian, a Muslim, a Zoroastrian or a Bahá'í, then you don't believe in the God Yahweh / Jehovah / Allah, and you can not understand or relate to the theologically schismatic differences and distinctions between these broad classifications of the same Religion: Abrahamism.

You are, in fact, trying to delineate different human beings, based on a quantified valuation of their theosophical beliefs.

50% of the human population are female. Generally, they have no interest in organised violence, certainly not that which is based on ideological or territorial disputes.

50% of the male human population are children. Generally, they have no interest in organised violence.

Of the remaining 25% of the human population, there are many men who also have no interest in organised violence.

You'd be very hard pressed to make the case that any more than about 10% of the human population is willing to resort to violence, because of their religious and / or ideological beliefs.

And most of them live in the West and are neither true Muslims, Christians or Jews.

The adult male Arab population of the Middle East and North Africa is generally a very angry group of human beings.

This is primarily because since the 14th Century C.E., they have had their desire for cultural and political autonomy violently suppressed; by the Ottoman Turks for the first 600 years, and Great Britain, France, the United States and Israel since the end of World War One.

The "West" teaches Arabs that if you have a grievance that you consider to be legitimate (even though it may not be a legal grievance), you can resort to violence to resolve that grievance.

The "West" has killed far, far more Arabs in the last 100 years than Arabs have killed non-Arabs. Of course, the "West" has killed even more Semitic people in the same period, because the Holocaust killed six million of the Arabs ethnic brethren: the Jews.

The "West" denies Middle Easterners the facility to profit from their birthright: their stupendous mineral wealth.

The "West" tells Middle Easterners that the greatest human achievement and ambition is material wealth.

Middle Easterners are unable to achieve that material wealth in their own, Western-colonised countries.

So they migrate to the West.

The "West" only gets pissed off with brown-skinned immigrants.

The "West" does not mind receiving immigrants from former European colonies - Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the United States - provided those immigrants are ethnically European.

The "West" does not mind receiving fantastically gorgeous Eastern European females as immigrants.

But if there is a visible ethnic difference, then those ethnically "different" human beings will be marginalised and subordinated in the cultures and societies they migrate.

The most ignorant aspect of racism is simply that there is only ONE Human Race.

Racists are self-haters and self-loathers.

Peace