[quote="Slacks"][color=#008080]...America had remained isolationist from the 1920s to today?

Would the world be more or less peaceful? Would the Nazis have successfully invaded England or forced a peace deal? Would the Russians have counter attacked the Nazis so successfully? Would they have stopped at Berlin?[/color][/quote]

If America had *REMAINED* Isolationist..?

America was never isolationist. No, not for a moment of its History.

Track it through:

The Thirteen (unlucky for some!) Colonies in North America separated from Great Britain following a War of Independence. They form a National Republic from a Federation of those 13 colonies that each declared Statehood.

That was around the end of the 18th Century. Now given what followed in the 19th Century, is it accurate to call the United States "Isolationist" during that period? Or is it more accurate to describe the U.S. Government as "Expansionist"?

[img]http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/40/Non-Native-American-Nations-Territorial-Claims-over-NAFTA-countries-1750-2008.gif[/img]

What actually takes place - in eerie premonition of what would take place 100 years later - is that during the first decades of the 19th Century, the government of the newly formed United States took advantage of the turmoil created in Europe by the Napoleonic Wars: firstly by purchasing "Louisiana" for a fire-sale price from Napoleon; and then by relieving a financially and militarily exhausted Spain of all of its former North American possessions.

After that, it was just a question of bulldozing all of the native inhabitants of North America out of the way, accommodating the Texan Republic and then purchasing Alaska from Russia (again: because Russia was anticipating war with Britain...), and the continental United States we know today was formed.

Having got all of that sorted by the end of the 19th Century, does America *THEN* turn Isolationist?

Of course not. It wants an Empire every bit as much as the dominant European Powers do. And since the weakest former European Powerhouse at the time was Spain, it was Spanish possessions that were the lowest hanging fruit, as far as the Expansionist Policies of the United States was concerned.

Following the conclusion of the Spanish-American War in 1898, future President Theodore Roosevelt wrote to a friend of his, describing the Conflict as "a splendid little War." All jolly good fun, and concluded by a Treaty that was hugely favourable to the Americans (it seems that Treaties signed in Paris never work out very well for the loser...).

Then, the 20th Century turns up.

At the beginning of which, the British Empire is the undisputed Global Superpower. Undisputed because not even all of the other European Nations/Empires' Navies combined, could take on the Royal Navy with any chance of winning (sound familiar..?).

And certainly not the United States' Navy.

[url=http://www.history.navy.mil/branches/org9-4.htm#1910]In January 1914, the U.S. Navy consisted of:[/url]

32 (non-Dreadnought) Battleships; 27 Cruisers; 3 Monitors; 46 Destroyers; 26 Submarines; and an assortment of torpedo and gunboats.

[url=http://spartacus-educational.com/FWWnavy.htm]In January 1914, the Royal Navy consisted of:[/url]

18 modern Dreadnoughts (with 6 more under construction); 10 battlecruisers; 20 town cruisers; 15 scout cruisers; 200 destroyers; 29 (non-Dreadnought) Battleships; and 150 cruisers.

Dreadnought Battleships were the Nuclear Weapons of the day. By 1914, the Russian Navy had 4, the French Navy had 10, the Germans and Austro-Hungarians had 20, and the Royal Navy had 29. The United States built 10 Battleships that it claimed were Dreadnought Class, but for one reason and another (mostly funding reasons though), the U.S. had Dreadnoughts in 1914, in the same way that North Korea has Nuclear Weapons today.

All of which is not to rag on the early-20th Century U.S. for having a shit Navy. It is just to illustrate that the U.S. was "Isolationist" at that point in History, for much the same reason that Poland has always been "Isolationist": it simply could not compete with the European Superpowers.

It might have served the conceit of the U.S. Government to claim that it was maintaining a position of Armed Neutrality during the first few years of World War One, for moral and ideological reasons. But the Truth is that the U.S. simply was not a Premier League Superpower.

During the real "Meat-Grinder" years of World War One (1914 - 1917), the U.S. announcing entry into the War on either the side of the British & French, or the Germans & Austrians, would have had much the same effect on the situation in Europe as if the Government of Azerbaijan were today to announce that they were supporting Russia in a conflict with the United States.

Only by 1917, when so many of Europe's able-bodied men had been turned into blood and bone fertiliser for the poppies of Flanders, would the arrival of a fresh load of still-living bodies tilt the Balance of War in favour of the side to which those bodies were attached.

Perhaps the greatest contribution that the U.S. made to the end of hostilities in 1918, was to be able act as a sometime Honest Broker between the victors and losers of the Great War. However, though President Wilson did his best to encourage the governments of Britain and France to behave honourably in victory and to allow the Germans to accept defeat with at least a little grace; he couldn't totally prevent the Anglo-French delegation from sticking it to the Germans with the Treaty of Versailles.

And that was something that would come back to haunt everyone, two decades later.

But for now: time to enjoy the Peace Dividends that permitted the 1920's (in the U.S. at least) to Roar.

And that was a great party, whilst it lasted. But as with all Good Things, it came to an end in 1929 with the Wall Street Crash and the ensuing Great Depression.

Again, you *COULD* call the United States "Isolationist" in the 1930's; but only in the same way that you can call someone who lives on Welfare Payments today, a "Non-International Jetsetter". With all of its energies directed inwards, trying to resuscitate a critically-ill Industrial Infrastructure, and to prevent the *ENTIRE* Mid-Western "Bread Basket" from turning into a Dustbowl... The U.S. couldn't have been Expansionist if it had wanted to be.

Critically then, at the beginning of 1939, the British Empire is *STILL* the richest and most powerful National Entity on the Planet. Even though it was enduring its own financial challenges - not least, trying to fund an expensive military in order to maintain its Military Superiority (sound familiar?) - the British were still Top Dog.

And whilst the United States had by this point joined the Premier League of World Superpowers, it was still very much trying to stay out of the Relegation Zone at the bottom of the table.

Then: World War Two.

Just two things to highlight about that Conflict:

It was the Soviet Unions "Red Army" that defeated the Nazis; not the British and American "Allies". Roosevelt and Churchill didn't make their move (much to Stalin's chagrin) until the Soviets had well and truly turned the tide. And indeed, it seems that the primary impetus for the Allies' decision to launch the Normandy Invasion, was that the advance of the Soviet Union was accelerating, and the U.S. and British needed to rush in and get some of the spoils before Stalin & Co. claimed them all.

Second thing that was facilitated by World War Two, was the transfer of all of the wealth of the British Empire, into the hands of the United States.

Far from "Helping" Britain, the United States made Great Britain pay top-dollar for every bit of "assistance" it purchased from America. Indeed, the final payment of $83.3 million for this "assistance" was paid by the U.K. to the U.S. on 29th December, 2006.

It was this transfer of wealth that facilitated America's post-War "Boom Years" during the 1950's and 1960's.

Fundamentally then, it was never a question of America's "Isolationism", because the U.S. has never operated an Isolationist Foreign Policy. At every turn, from the foundation of the Republic, successive American Governments have capitalised on European conflicts and turmoil to increase its own power and advance its own objectives (usually: more power).

Following World War Two, Western European Nations became Vassal-States of the U.S. (none more so than the United Kingdom). There has always been a pretence of equality, of "Special Relationships" between Nations. But in reality, the N.A.T.O. Alliance was established subsequent to the much more idealistic foundation of the United Nations, in order for the United States to exercise control over Western European Nations' Foreign Policies. The "World [sic] Bank" and International Monetary Fund were corollaries to N.A.T.O., being established in order for the U.S. to control Western European (and other) Nations' Economic Policies.

So I guess to address your hypothetical Slacks, we have to clarify with:

What if the United States had remained neutral throughout World War Two? What if the U.S. had not established N.A.T.O? What if the U.S. had not established the World Bank and the IMF? What if the U.S. hadn't begun a Nuclear Arms Race with the Soviet Union? What if the U.S. had not supported Arab Nationalism in the Middle East during the 1950's and 1960's? What if the U.S. had not installed a Military Dictatorship in Iran? What if the U.S. had not installed a Military Dictatorship in South Korea? What if the U.S. had not tried to install a Military Dictatorship in South Vietnam? What if the U.S. had not installed a Military Dictatorship in Indonesia? What if the U.S. had not installed Military Dictatorships in South America? What if the U.S. had not elected to provide unconditional support to Israel following the 1967 Six-Day War? What if the U.S. had not expanded N.A.T.O. after the collapse of the Soviet Union? What if the U.S. had not invaded Iraq in 2003? What if the U.S. had not proposed attacking Syria in 2013? What if the U.S. had not prompted and backed a coup d'etat in Ukraine in 2014?

What if the U.S. had just remained a quiet, insular, non-bellicose North American nation like Canada?

Well...

I suspect the Planet would probably be looking at a brighter and more Peaceful Future than the one it currently faces.