[quote=VigilanteGandi][color=green]No Holyman, it was the ONLY thing they could have done. Correct me if I'm wrong, but when you set up a blockade, doesn't that usually mean you stop ALL ships from passing through?

The "aid transporters" clearly knew of the blockade, and clearly knew that there was a 0% chance they would make it to their destination.

So you tell me, who was the one making the political statement? Who were the stupid ones here? [/color][/quote]

The Israelis.

The *WHOLE* point of the Aid Flotilla was to bring the World's attention to the 3 year long siege of the Gaza Strip by the Israelis. What with Credit Crunches, a War in Afghanistan, Iranian nuclear programmes, volcanoes and earthquakes, the World and its Media has been largely ignoring the Siege of Gaza.

As I wrote in my previous post:

[quote][color=blue]It was never a military issue in the first place: it was a political one. What the activists on the ships were primarily trying to do was to bring the World's attention to the 3-year long Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip. [b]A few thousand tonnes of over-ripe tomatoes, some containers full of second-hand clothes, and a token amount of building materials was never going to really disturb the dynamic within and around the Gaza Strip.[/b] The object of the exercise was to highlight the injustice (and incidentally, illegality) of the Israeli's collective punishment of the population of the Gaza Strip.[/color][/quote]

In short, the purpose of the Aid Flotilla was expressly political, not humanitarian.

It wasn't the actual cargo on the actual ships that was intended to relieve the suffering of the Gazan Palestinians, but the fact that it was well understood that Israel would almost certainly try and stop the Aid Flotilla reaching its destination, and this would remind the World about the Siege of Gaza.

And the actual Israeli response, the actual particulars of the eventual Israeli response, means that the organisers of the Aid Flotilla succeeded beyond their wildest dreams. We now have both the current British Prime Minister, David Cameron, and the former British Prime Minister, Tony Blair (Special Envoy to the Middle East), calling for an end to the siege; as well as Hilary Clinton calling the siege unacceptable and the White House making very lukewarm comments.

So when I say that the Israeli Government acted in a blindly stupid way, I mean that they fell hook, line and sinker for a blatantly obvious trap.

And there *WERE* plenty of other options VG.

The Israeli Defence Cabinet Secretary, Zvi Hauser, voted against military action, the evening before the commando raid was launched. He recommended just letting the flotilla sail on to Gaza. The Turkish Government had given diplomatically bankable assurances that the flotilla had been thoroughly searched before it was allowed to leave Cyprus flying Turkish flags. And there was nothing in the cargo - with the possible exception of some building materials - that could be used to Hamas' military advantage.

Instead of walking head first into a clear bear-trap that has now clanged shut massively to Israel's diplomatic disadvantage; the Israelis could have presented themselves as having a softer, less brutal side by just letting the flotilla pass through the blockade as a gesture of humanitarian goodwill.

That they chose not to is a clear indication of the hard-line, militaristic and deeply self-righteous attitude of the Israeli Government. Ultimately it was a very, very poor political decision, and the Israelis are now having to deal with the disadvantageous consequences of that decision.

[quote=VigilanteGandi][color=green]If this incident really was destined to backfire on Israel no matter what, then essentially what happened here is Hamas sent a bunch more young-adult marters to their deaths in order to put more public pressure on Israel. I know you said you're not taking sides here Holyman, but you do continuously support these barbarians and the tactics they use as long as it's against the "rogue state". [/color][/quote]

It is important to understand that there are at least *FIVE* sides in the Israel-Palestine Conflict VG.

One side is the Israeli Government; another side is the Fatah Government of the Palestinian West Bank; and another side is the Hamas Government of the Gaza Strip.

Then you have the Israeli Civilian Population as another side; and finally the Palestinian Civilian Population.

It is important at least to recognise the difference between Hamas and the Civilian Population of the Gaza Strip.

I don't support Hamas VG; but I do support the Civilian Population of the Gaza Strip.

The Aid Flotilla's purpose was to draw attention to the plight of the Civilian Population of the Gaza Strip, and it was not in any way organised by Hamas. You only have to look at the list of "Deranged Leftists" (as Foota would call them), their positions in Western Society, and their intellectual pedigree to see that they were not organised, encouraged or inspired by a desire to support Hamas.

[quote=VigilanteGandi][color=green]So you know what, Israel is no doubt one potentially corrupt body, especially militarily. But fuck Hamas. Seriously. I don't care who does it, but if Israel has to do what it has to do in this situation, I'm not going to throw a fit over it. Israel's foreign relations can be improved, Hamas has no redeeming features to stand on that could ever even need improving. They're a bunch of dirty terrorists who everybody hates. [/color][/quote]

But you have to make the distinction between Hamas and the civilian population of the Gaza Strip VG.

Just as you would expect or demand that a Palestinian Paramilitary organisation respect the distinction between the Government and Military of Israel, and Israel's civilian population.

I wouldn't shed any tears if the violent militants within Hamas were erased from the picture. But equally, I wouldn't shed any tears if the equally violent and militant members of the Israeli Government were also removed from the equation.

My feeling is that due to the democratic nature of Israel, and its dependence upon U.S. military and economic aid, it would be easier and infinitely more peaceable to remove the uncompromising hard-line Israeli politicians from the negotiating dynamic, than it is to try and eliminate every violent militant within the Palestinian resistance movement.

[face_peace]