[quote="Foota"][color=#FF0000]Uh-huh, they are just the same Holyman!

Except the fact that one of the theocracies executes child homosexuals, executes apostates, sends out international fatwas targeting writers for death, persecutes Bahai's, jails and executes political prisoners, denies the Holocaust and forces their women to wear bed sheets over their heads in public.[/color][/quote]

You are only emphasising my point Foota.

Whatever measures you apply to Iran, can and must also be used to measure Israel.

I'm not going to sit here and defend the Iranian Government, any more than I would defend the Israeli, American or British Governments. You're absolutely correct in your assessment of the repugnance of the Iranian Government's policies and actions. Its treatment of those who do not display sufficient respect for and adherence to Islamic principles is abhorrent, medieval, totally uncivilised: nearly as awful as the behaviour of the Saudi Arabian "government", for example.

Though we always come back to the same point, don't we? Who here in this Forum Community is trying to defend the actions of the Iranian Government/Guardian Council? Why the need to keep banging on about what everyone understands and agrees with?

But what about applying the measures you have to Iran, to Israel?

Now we *DO* have someone in this Forum Community who automatically and unquestioningly supports and defends the actions and policies of the Israeli Government, don't we. So it *IS* worth arguing against that defence - your defence Foota - to see how you respond.

The Israeli Theocracy, unlike the Iranian Theocracy, keeps 1.5 million human beings walled up in the Gaza Strip. Though you and Israel's other supporters dislike and reject the term "Concentration Camp", that is, by every measure of the term, exactly what the Gaza Strip is. But call it a "Holiday Camp" if you want, if that will avoid a distracting diversion into nomenclature: fact is that 1.5 million humans - mostly children - are walled up in the most densely populated are in the World, with ingress and egress controlled by the Israeli military. Limited rations and medicines are allowed into the Gaza Strip; and the Israeli government launches regular, murderous attacks on the civilians living within it.

The Israeli Government perpetuate this monstrous crime of communal incarceration every day. What, in the nearly 35 years since the Islamic Revolution, has the Iranian Government/Guardian Council done that even approaches an action as criminally sociopathic as this?

The Iranian Government may - along with the "Governments" of Saudi Arabia and the UAE (all firm U.S. Allies) - endorse [i]fatwas[/i] issued against Islamic apostates; but has the Iranian Government instituted and acted upon a policy of targeted assassinations as the Israeli Government has done?

How many sovereign nations has the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran attacked over the last 35 years? How many United Nations resolutions has it ignored? Has the Iranian Government refused to sign the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and amassed a nuclear stockpile of more than 200 warheads? When was the last time that the Iranian Government threatened to attack, or actually attacked a sovereign nation, because it feared that nation developing a capability that would thwart further attacks?

Alright, but we're talking about the Theocratic nature of the Israeli and Iranian Governments, aren't we?

Alright then: why are Israeli women not allowed to worship at the Wailing Wall? Why are they arrested for wearing prayer shawls - a simple item of clothing?

Does the Israeli Government discriminate and persecute non-Jewish Israelis Foota? Does it arrest and imprison without trial, any Muslim it considers (not proves Foota - just considers) poses a threat to it (and some that don't, but whose arrest serves as an example)?

Does the Israeli Military execute Palestinian children Foota, homosexual or otherwise?

Oh, yeah, I know... I know you know the answer to those questions is "yes", but, well, it's all morally justified in your mind, isn't it? You can understand and accept Israel's reasons for doing what it does; you'll even defend those actions.

But not only do you refuse to accept or understand the Iranian Governments egregious policies and activities (not that there's any need, 'cos nobody around here is trying to defend them; and nobody but you is attacking them...); you paint those actions up as something wholly abhorrent and unjustifiable, even as you make excuses for the Israeli Government's similar (some not as bad, some much worse) activities.

It's the blatant hypocrisy that we find so galling Foota.

[quote="Foota"][color=#FF0000]In fact, Israel is far worse because some blinkered people in the West "hypocritically" ignore Iran's massive human rights abuses and holds Israel to a higher standard than every one of their Muslim neighbors - right?[/color][/quote]

Oh dear...

Thing is Foota, the Islamic Republic of Iran doesn't pretend to be anything other than what it is: an Islamic Theocracy.

Now those of us who live in the Western World, presumably continually to do so because we aren't attracted to the idea of living in an Islamic Theocracy. Because we *ALL* know that such a Society has rules and lifestyles that don't appeal to any of us.

We don't agree with, support, encourage or excuse the conduct or behaviours of the Iranian Theocratic Government. But there's not a lot of point banging on about that, when there's nobody around trying to defend it.

Israel, by contrast, wants us all to believe that it is an Enlightened, developed, socially advanced, civilised Society.

Israel wants that Foota. It is *ISRAEL* that allegedly wants to be held to a higher standard than their Islamic neighbours Foota.

Just like South Africa did, under *ITS* Apartheid Regime.

If Israel wants to declare itself a Jewish Theocracy, governing itself under 3,000 year old traditions, and governed by the Ultra-Orthodox sections of its Community that already exert considerable influence in Israel's Coalition Governments...

Then I'm sure the rest of us will oblige by lowering the standards by which we judge Israel.

:>_