[quote=spootbat][color=green]Holyman, Israel has a right to exist and defend itself from being destroyed, which it would be right now if it hadn't ordered mandatory military service for each citizen.  Israeli hawks and crazy settlers like to disrupt the reconciliation process, because either they are EXTREMELY nationalistic, racist toward Arabs, or take biblical stories and prophecies literally.

I'm Jewish, and I think that Israel has a right to exist and defend itself from being destroyed.  Is that crazy or something?  It has nothing to do with religion to me (although to some it does, like those asshole Jewish West Bank settlers who need the army to forcibly remove them).  Jews, an ethnic group, have a right to have a homeland, and that homeland is Israel.  Palestinians also an ethnic group, have a right to have a homeland as well.  But neither group has the right to destroy one another. My cousins in Israel have a right to live in peace and not get blown up, and Palestinian civilians have a right to not get blown up, either.

Is that really that crazy, Holyman?  Am I part of the "zionist conspiracy"?  [/color][/quote]

Hope you're sitting comfortably Spoot! ;)

Right then, first off: no, Jews do not have a right to have a homeland.

To the best of my knowledge, no religious group has a "Right" to have a homeland.

If the Jews have a right to a homeland, then what about the Kurds, the Tamils, the Basque, the Cornish, the Native Americans? What about the Tibetans and the Uyghurs? Or the Copts, the Druze and the Maronites? Or even the Mormons, Amish or Moonies?

And of course, the Palestinians.

I'm not necessarily saying these groups [i]shouldn't[/i] have the right to a homeland of their own: I'm just pointing out that they don't have such a right.

Where would that "Right" come from?

Is it a moral right? A religious right? A spiritual right? An economic or political right? Or is it a social right? A practical right?

What or where is the globally accepted apparatus that determines and enforces the rights of disparate human groups?

So what makes the Jewish people different to any other group of human beings? It can't be the Holocaust. Native Americans suffered far greater depredations at the hands of European settlers, and yet they haven't been granted their own autonomous political state.

If the measure by which the Jewish people have earned a "Right" to their own homeland is the terrible abuse they suffered at the hands of the Nazis; then before too much longer, the Palestinians will have earned exactly the same "Right", because of the treatment continually meted out to them by the Israelis. Not for nothing is the Gaza Strip considered History's largest ever concentration camp.

But even if you can justify the Jewish people having their own political state, by what international institution or agreement is their "Right" to have their own state enforced?

Well, you might say "Why, the United Nations of course Holyman!"; but the problem that you've got right there is that the Modern State of Israel itself refuses to accept the legitimacy and primacy of the United Nations. And that's a shame, because without the United Nations, the Modern State of Israel wouldn't exist to begin with; and there wouldn't even be a basic framework to begin to guarantee the territorial integrity of Israel.

Unfortunately, every institution, treaty, agreement, accord or even principle and accepted norm that might guarantee Israel's "Right" to exist, has been repeatedly ignored, flouted or smashed by Israel itself - rather foolishly and counter-intuitively, in my opinion.

Jewish Israelis can not demand that the World respect the foundation of the Modern State of Israel by the United Nations in 1947; whilst Israel continues to ignore U.N. Security Council Resolution 242, which demands it withdraws from the Occupied Territories.

So you see Spoot, it is very difficult to talk about the Jewish "Right" to a homeland, whilst the policies of successive Israeli governments have flouted and undermined the institutions and treaties that created the Modern State of Israel in the first place.

Now then, instead of looking at the way things should or could be, let's look at The Way Things Are.

For good or ill, the Modern State of Israel exists, and this May, it will celebrate the 60th anniversary of its foundation. One doesn't need to appeal to a Higher Power of any description to accept the [i]de facto[/i] existence of Israel.

So let us set aside the notion of whether Israel is a Jewish State or not, since the Israel's Jewish-ness is really only relevant if you are Jewish, or anti-Jewish (and I am neither).

Let us also set aside the consideration of whether or not Israel really is Zion. I'm not a Believer in the God of Abraham, Isaac and Moses, so it is not appropriate for me to question the specific liturgical aspects of your Faith.

But what we can both agree and focus upon, is the very real fact that the Modern State of Israel exists, and it is populated by some 7 million human beings.

Now we can ask: do those 7 million human beings have the right to live in Peace and Security, with all the Freedom of Opportunity they can create for themselves?

Of course they do, absolutely.

And where is that Right enshrined? It is enshrined in the very basic and elemental fabric of Human Society. It is the basic principle upon which all of Human Civilisation and progress depends. It is in need of no international law, agreement or treatise, because respect for that right is innate to every Human society and culture that wishes to be considered a part of Human Civilisation.

And it is by [b]*THIS*[/b] Right, and no other, that Israel, and the Peace and security of Israelis must be guaranteed.

The Modern State of Israel exists. By international accord established sixty years ago, the Community of the World agreed that the Modern State of Israel would be founded. And having once been founded, the agreements that defend all our nations' borders defend Israel's borders too.

Now, as I am sure you are well aware, between 1948 and 1967, the existence of the Modern State of Israel was continually threatened by its Arab neighbours. The Six-Day War was a pre-emptive strike against the nationalist Arab forces amassed by President Nasser of Egypt; and had Israel not struck first, it is very, very likely that the Modern State of Israel would have disappeared from the Map of the World.

But that was 1967 Spoot.

It is 2008 now, more than forty years since the Six Day War. Israel is now the most heavily and effectively armed nation in the region, and the only country in the Middle East that possesses a nuclear weapons stockpile. There is absolutely no objective assessment that could find that Israel is now, or is ever likely to be, threatened by any of its neighbours, least of all the Palestinians.

And yet, the Israeli Government continues to behave as though it faces imminent destruction; and continues to justify the oppression of the Palestinians in the Occupied Territories, non-Jewish Israelis, and the Lebanese people on that basis. Israel has become a pariah state within the International Community of Nations; far, far more guilty of breaches of International Laws and norms than any other nation in the region.

The Truth is that since the end of the Yom Kippur War, Israel has faced no existential threat whatsoever; and especially whilst it remains a virtual client state of the United States of America, it is highly unlikely that it ever will again.

So really, why worry at all about whether or not the Modern State of Israel has a "Right to Exist"? Israel does exist; and it will and must continue to exist for the foreseeable future.

Israel is a vibrant, Western style Society; and still retains the sympathy of many people in the West, despite its efforts to undermine that sympathy.

Yet just as Israel continues to behave as though it faces imminent destruction; many Israelis and their supporters - particularly in the U.S. - continue to behave as though they believe the Rest of the non-Arab World desires its eradication.

And perhaps most egregiously of all, Israel's Government continues to use this institutionalised sense of victimisation, to justify the worst forms of oppression against the Palestinian People.

Propagandistically, the Rest of the World is supposed to believe that the Israeli-Palestinian fight is somehow between two equal parties. We are supposed to ignore the fact that Israel is the World's 13th (or 14th?) largest economy; that it is heavily nuclear-armed; and that it enjoys the unconditional support of the World's last remaining Superpower. And we are supposed to believe that the impoverished Palestinians, currently being starved to death in the Gaza Strip - and only marginally less oppressed in the West Bank - are somehow capable of terminating the existence of the Modern State of Israel.

It simply isn't so Spootbat.

Israelis are their own worst enemies.

Just as the Bush Administration cynically or incompetently squandered the International goodwill it received following 9/11; so too have successive Israeli governments squandered the sympathy and good will that the Jewish founders of the Modern State of Israel clearly deserved following the Holocaust.

If Israelis wish to see their "Right to Exist" in Peace and security respected by the Arab World; then they [b]*MUST*[/b] respect the Rights of Palestinians, Lebanese, Syrians and Iranians to live in equal Peace.

It simply is unacceptable that the Israeli Government continues to demand that Palestinians respect Israelis "Right" to live in Peace; when it gives absolutely no indications that it will ever allow the Palestinians to do likewise.

This is a social and political issue about Human Rights: it has absolutely nothing to do with the religions that different people choose to believe in.

If you're asking me personally: *I* would say that national borders have caused Humans nothing but grief, and that all such borders of separation should be abolished immediately.

But if you're asking me what practical steps the Israeli Government can take to ensure its citizens can enjoy the kind of Peace and security we enjoy (for the better part) in the West: then I would say that Israel should stop giving the Arab World all the reasons it does, to make Arabs feel their World would be better off without the Modern State of Israel.

Peace