[quote="Foota"][quote="Slacks"][color=#008080]But Israel know - they [i]know, [/i]for a fact - that they are going to cause civilian death, injury and general all-round suffering. Even if the Israeli decision makers found ordering these sorts of strikes heart-wrenchingly difficult but saw it as necessary, why do you think a Palestinian is going to be anything other than seriously hacked off at their family being bombed to smithereens?[/color][/quote]

[color=#FF0000]And Palestinians know - they [u]know[/u], for a fact - that they will get hit back causing injury and general all-round suffering if they foolishly fire HUNDREDS of rockets into their much stronger neighbor Israel.  Palestinians have been doing this for decades now, and it doesn't seem to be improving matters.  Maybe it's time they took a long term view and negotiate final borders? [/color][/quote]

Sheesh... As tiresome as it is having to keep going through this stuff with you; it's worth it, because there are too many people who still think as you do.

Right then...

Israel:

Technologically advanced and Economically developed "First World" Nation, with an incredibly well-equipped (by the U.S...), capable and disciplined Military.

Palestine:

Split between two "Bantustans" (The West Bank and the Gaza Strip). For several years has had two separate political factions - Fatah and Hamas - governing the two areas. The Israeli Government has, because of this, refused to engage fully in diplomatic negotiations with the Palestinians, because there was "no unified voice".

Just recently, Fatah and Hamas set aside their differences, reconciled, and formed a unified Government.

The Israeli Prime Minister immediately turned around and said it *STILL* wouldn't negotiate, because now the Palestinians were represented by "Terrorists".  >&8~

The Palestinians have no organised military force: because the Israelis will not allow them to have one.

The Palestinians *DO* have a *LOT* of very angry and frustrated young men, who (in echoes of Monty Python's "People's Front of Judea/The Judean People's Front/The Judean Popular People's Front/the Campaign for a Free Galilee/the Welsh...) get together and form their own multifarious groups that have the expressed intention of doing something (*ANYTHING*) about the predicament of the Palestinian People.

Both Fatah (West Bank) and Hamas (Gaza Strip) do their best to try and control these groups, because they know full well with how much glee the Israeli Government leaps on *ANY* violence emanating from the two Bantustans, and uses it as a justification to carry out Collective Punishment of the Palestinians.

But as every single one of us knows from our own Societies' experience with Young Men, when those tearaways get all fired up about something, it's not always easy to *GUARANTEE* they don't get up to mischief... The naughty scallywags!

However, for the most part, the Hamas and Fatah authorities *ARE* effective at preventing these youths and their groups from carrying out unilateral and unauthorised attacks on Israel. We know this, because *EVERY TIME* there are rocket attacks launched from Gaza into Israel, the Israelis respond with massive and overwhelming (and entirely counter-productive...) military assaults on the Civilian Population of the Gaza Strip. And we *ALWAYS* hear about that...

So you should forget any nonsense about the "Hamas Death Cult" firing "hundreds of rockets" at "Israel every month" Foota. Because that simply is *NOT* the case. The onus is upon you to prove your assertion, if you genuinely believe it to be the case.

And whilst we're on Nonsense Topics, let's just quickly address this issue of "Human Shields".

The suggestion is:

That Hamas organises and controls units of personnel tasked with firing rockets at Israel.

That where those units set-up their launch sites, they corral hapless Palestinian civilians around the area.

So that when the Israeli fighter-bombers fire their missiles at those launch sites, they can't help but kill civilians at the same time as they neutralise the launch sites.

This advantages the Palestinian cause, because it makes Israel look too aggressive and heavy-handed, and this elicits sympathy for Palestinians.

Have I got that about right Foota? Is that the way that the narrative runs in your mind?

OK then...

Firstly, Hamas is *NOT* organising and controlling units of personnel tasked with firing rockets at Israel.

It is a ridiculous suggestion that they are. Hamas and all other mainstream Palestinian Organisations are so overwhelmingly infiltrated by Israeli Intelligence (who very easily bribe impoverished Palestinians to spy on Israel's behalf), that any centralised Command and Control structure operated by Hamas would immediately compromise any kind of offensive operations.

Hamas is also - contrary to the propaganda you are fed - primarily a political organisation, much as Sinn Fein was the overtly political establishment to which the Provisional IRA claimed allegiance. There is *NO* organised Hamas military force.

As you should know by now, after nearly 15 years of "The Great War on Terror", "Terrorists" don't organise or coordinate themselves: that would be inimical to their cause. "Terrorist"/Paramilitary cells operate independently of one another, just as the French Resistance and American Revolutionaries did.

Secondly then: there are *NO* designated rocket-launching sites.

Think about it. What are we talking about here? Essentially "Bottle Rockets". At best - and if they're lucky - maybe the Palestinians will have had some conventional rocket launchers smuggled through the tunnels from the Sinai, which are fired from an individual's shoulder.

What those rockets are *NOT*, are munitions that require preparation of a launch site, or the parking-up of a launching vehicle. These are "Terrorists" remember? It's all about Hit-and-Run. Find a flat roof somewhere; assemble your rocket launcher (*VERY* quickly!); fire it off; run somewhere else. Rinse and repeat.

So there are *NO* designated rocket-launching sites. 'K?

"Human Shields" then:

In technologically advanced and socially developed Israel, most citizens who live within rocket range of the Gaza Strip have access to Government-provided collective bomb shelters. If they are lucky, they may also have been able to afford to build their own "Safety Room" in their own homes. And...

They also have the evidently effective "Iron Dome" operated by the IDF; which is proving much more capable than America's Anti-Ballistic Missile technology has any chance of being.

Bit of Homework for you: how many Israelis have actually been killed by rockets launched from the Occupied Territories in the last 20 years?

OK. Now, what about the Palestinians? What do *THEY* have to protect them from the mass armaments and military technology that Israel can bring to bear on them?

That's easy: Nothing.

No Surface-to-Air Missile launchers; no Anti-Missile technology; no Anti-Aircraft batteries... They don't even have air-raid shelters.

When the air-raid sirens sound in Israel, Israelis are well-drilled in making their way in an orderly fashion to either the municipal air-raid shelters, or to the Safety Rooms in their own houses.

In the Gaza Strip, when from the sound of the explosions, it becomes clear that Israel is once more carrying out a bombing campaign, what happens is that Palestinians all gather together in family groups, in a single room of their homes.

They do this so that if they get killed, they all die together.

That's it. That's the extent of it.

There are no "Human Shields": there are just hundreds of thousands of terrified Palestinian men, women and children, all huddled together in their homes (if that home hasn't already been destroyed), hoping that this time around it is not their turn to be exterminated.

That Foota, I'm afraid, is the Truth of it.

And that Truth is based upon my reading endless testimonies and reports of *ISRAELI* Peace Activists; rather than my continually swallowing a very easily repudiated (if the will to repudiate is there...) propaganda line issued by the Israeli Government.

I've tried it your way, and my intelligence and self-respect completely rejected it.

You should try it my way, for once.