[quote=VigilanteGandi][color=green]I think it's pretty obvious to see here that Israel is not going to lay down and be defeated here holyman, mostly because they are the far more powerful state.

I'll tell what it is as simple as: If Hamas wants to continue fighting and bombing Israel like they could actually win a war with them, then they will continue to see people of Palestine die. You can't really expect Israel to just quit when they hold the advantage in every way. [/color][/quote]

But that's [b]*EXACTLY*[/b] when I expect one side in a Conflict to stop fighting it Gandi: when it holds the advantage in every way.

No-one is talking about Israel quitting or surrendering; but surely we should expect Israel to stop fighting the Conflict it has been fighting since 1967, since it is now so clear that nothing and no-one can ever again threaten the Existence of the State of Israel.

1967 was a very different time. The United States was backing Nasser's Arab Nationalists, and paid little or no attention to Israel's fortunes. Israel was a multi-lateral experiment with nation creation, which the U.S. could happily ignore, more concerned as it was with the Cold War, and the War in South-East Asia.

Everyone expected Israel to succumb to the combined might of the Arab Nationalists, and that was simply the way that it was going to be.

But then, with the Six Day War, Israel completely surprised everyone, turned everything around, and began its rise to the Regional Military Superpower that it now is.

And in the 1970's, Israel became a nuclear-armed state, and ensured that its territorial integrity would never again be threatened by its neighbours.

End of Story.

Except it wasn't, not for the Israelis anyway.

Despite the fact that the Israelis "hold the advantage in every way", they continue to behave as though they are under a continual existential threat from its Arab neighbours; and it simply is not.

The Israelis are, however, intent on holding onto as much expanded territory as they can, especially in the Occupied Territories.

What possible threat do the Palestinians pose to Israel?

None at all; no existential threat at least. Sure, the actions of a few enraged militants might result in minor casualties and the odd fatality - 20 Israelis dead from 8 years of rocket attacks; but this has to be considered against the backdrop of the Israeli occupation of Palestinian territory, and the far, far greater number of deaths and casualties imposed by Israel on Palestinians.

Israel holds the advantage in every way Gandi.

Israel can afford to withdraw from the Occupied Territories without increasing the risks to its People or Existence as a State; and indeed, in doing so would very likely decrease to nothing the minor and residual threat that does currently come from Islamic militants outraged at the continuing occupation of Palestine.

Israel won the Arab-Israeli Conflict: it doesn't need to carry on fighting it.

[face_peace]