There's a big difference I notice here between two kinds of responder in this thread:

Supporters of Israel are using Hamas' killing of Israeli civilians (all four of the Israeli civilians that have been killed by Hamas, that is), to justify Israel's killing of Palestinian civilians.

But no-one is trying to use Israel's killing of more than 500 Palestinian civilians to justify Hamas' killing of Israeli civilians.

There are two camps then:

1) Those who feel that killing civilians, including women and children, can be somehow justified.

and

2) Those who don't.

...

Simply: the threat posed to Israelis by Palestinian militants can in no way justify Israel's slaughter of Palestinian civilians.

As for the "Human Shield" argument... It is sophomoric.

Israel has militarily invaded the most densely populated area in the Middle East.

Israel suggests that if Palestinian Militants (Palestinians resisting the Invasion) fought only from non-civilian areas, then Israel would not need to kill Palestinian civilians.

But just exactly where would those "Non-civilian areas" be in the Gaza Strip? And how would they be designated as such?

Israel has invaded a densely populated civilian area, of a society that has no standing military capability. Israel hs never and would never allow a Palestinian military force to exist. At the commencement of this campaign, Israel destroyed all Palestinian Police Stations (the closest the Palestinians in Gaza have been allowed to having a security force).

So just where exactly would the Israelis consider it acceptable for Palestinian militants to defend the Invasion of the Gaza Strip from?

Are Israel and its supporters suggesting that Hamas' and other Palestinian militants should face Israel's invasion forces on a clearly designated Field of Battle? That prior to the commencement of the Battle, Hamas' commanders would right out to discuss terms with the Israeli commanders, before battle commenced?

Wars haven't been fought like that since the 18th Century.

When your territory is invaded, you fight back anyway you can.

Using the justification that Palestinian Resistance fighters are fighting the invading Israeli forces from Civilian areas and buildings, completely ignores the fact that the entirety of the Gaza Strip [b]*IS*[/b] one massively dense Civilian area.

There simply is no justification for Israel's slaughter of Palestinian civilians.

And Israel will pay the price for this slaughter, for many years to come.

[face_peace]