[quote=VigilanteGandi][color=green]I don't think anyone supports that Holyman, not Foota or anyone else. The deaths of innocents is an unfortunate consequence of the way Hamas chooses to do battle, and many deaths could be prevented if Hamas even cared about the people of Palestine a little bit.[/color][/quote]

That really isn't the way that it is Gandi; and it's pretty reprehensible to think that it is.

The deaths of innocents are the direct consequence of Israel bombarding and shelling densely populated civilian areas.

Israel knows it is going to be killing innocent women and children; it has just decided that killing a handful of Hamas militants is worth killing dozens of innocent civilians.

It's counter-productive because all those innocent civilians killed are - or were - real human beings; and they all have family and friends. The grief, hurt and anger that the relatives and neighbours of the victims feel, radicalises them into wanting to take revenge.

Look how Barcelona has been acting today, and he's just had a bad day with a court summons. Try to imagine how you are going to be feeling when Israeli artillery or bombs dropped from military jets have just killed your wife and children.

Are you going to be feeling rational and reasonable?

Of course not. You are going to feel hurt and angry; you are going to feel like you want to exact a murderous revenge; and you are going to feel like you have nothing left to lose.

And so when a Hamas militant offers you an AK47 or a Qassam Rocket, or even a suicide bomb-belt, you're not really going to be thinking things through logically, rationally or reasonably; or with an eye on the bigger picture.

Israel knows that it is going to be killing women and children. The tactics it uses means that this is inevitable. But they rationalise that it is morally correct, by not taking any responsibility for it at all. They blame it all on Hamas and other Palestinian militants, as though Palestinians should just cut out the Middle Man and kill their own people instead.

The threat posed to Israeli civilians, whilst serious, does not warrant, excuse or justify Israel's heavy-handed and murderous response. The Whole World, apart from Israel and a minority of Americans can see that.

But above all the moral approbation, is the fact that Israel's tactics are counter-productive. Short of exterminating every Palestinian in Existence - and [b]*THEN*[/b] every Arab - there is no way that other human beings aren't going to want to take revenge for the women and children killed by Israel.

It really is as simple as that.

[face_peace]