[quote=Mullet post_id=10421 time=1696744647 user_id=58][color=#8040BF]I don't think anyone here aside from Foota would deny that Israel is an asshole country.

It's the dumb terrorist shit we're all sick of.  There are smarter ways of dealing with assholes.[/color][/quote]

It's that word, "Terrorism", that's the biggest problem.

There is no internationally recognised legal/diplomatic definition for the term "Terrorism".

This is because there isn't a definition that could be used that wouldn't absolutely implicate just about every government on the Planet (with the possible exception of Bhutan).

[url=https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terrorism]Wikipedia's page on Terrorism has this to say[/url]:

[quote] Terrorism, in its broadest sense, is the use of intentional violence and fear to achieve political or ideological aims. The term is used in this regard primarily to refer to intentional violence during peacetime or in the context of war against non-combatants (mostly civilians and neutral military personnel). The terms "terrorist" and "terrorism" originated during the French Revolution of the late 18th century but became widely used internationally and gained worldwide attention in the 1970s during the Troubles in Northern Ireland, the Basque conflict, and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The increased use of suicide attacks from the 1980s onwards was typified by the 2001 September 11 attacks in the United States.

There are various different definitions of terrorism, with no universal agreement about it. Terrorism is a charged term. It is often used with the connotation of something that is "morally wrong". Governments and non-state groups use the term to abuse or denounce opposing groups. Varied political organizations have been accused of using terrorism to achieve their objectives. These include left-wing and right-wing political organizations, nationalist groups, religious groups, revolutionaries, and ruling governments. Legislation declaring terrorism a crime has been adopted in many states. State terrorism is that perpetrated by nation states, but is not considered such by the state conducting it, making legality a grey area. There is no consensus as to whether terrorism should be regarded as a war crime. Separating activism and terrorism can be difficult and has been described as a 'fine line'.[/quote]

Compare the number of Palestinian deaths caused by Israeli actions over the years with the number of Israeli deaths caused by Palestinian actions. Compare also the methods used. You must be absolutely predisposed to blindly supporting the Israeli Government to not consider its actions terrorist in nature; and equally predisposed to blindly opposing the Palestinian cause to cite any and every Palestinian action as terrorist.

The fundamental and unavoidable fact here is that Israel militarily occupies sovereign Palestinian Territory.

Israel was ordered to withdraw from Palestinian Territory by the United Nations Security Council in 1967. This order has been reiterated annually by the U.N. General Assembly, and every time the United States has vetoed the authorisation of punitive action against the Israeli Government.

Palestinians living in territory that is militarily occupied by Israel are entirely within their rights to take whatever actions they feel might effect their liberation. The International Community is also obligated to support the Palestinians.

But... The United States of America has since 1973, provided unconditional diplomatic, economic and military support to Israel.

So, you know: sucks to be Palestinian, I guess.