[quote=Superslacks][color=green]See, the way I read it is that he's not at all 'selective'. The fact that he writes more about Israel is indicative of his belief that Israel is more to blame here, and not because he believes that Hamas' use of violence is right.[/color][/quote]

I just want to qualify what you've written very slightly 'Slacks.

I don't think that the Israeli Government holds more or less blame than Hamas or any other Palestinian militant group.

In fact, the point I'm really trying to express as clearly as I know how, is that as long as we Third Parties to the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict try to play the "Blame Game", there will never be Peace in Israel-Palestine.

There has simply been too much blood spilt in the Conflict, too much hatred and mistrust sown, and like all blood-feuds, the exact origins are lost in the Mists of Time.

Trying to establish who is most to blame for either the beginning or continuation of the Conflict, is all that the International Community has been trying to do for more than forty years... And the killing continues to this day.

It's like our man from Northern Ireland said earlier in the thread: sooner or later there has to be a line drawn in the Page of History regarding the Conflict, to allow Peace and Reconciliation - a lengthy and fragile process - to commence.

Taking sides; blaming one side more than the other for the continuation of the Conflict just doesn't help anyone.

What I [b]*HAVE*[/b] been pointing out - observing really, rather than blaming - is that the Israeli Government is disproportionately responsible for far greater suffering and death amongst Palestinians, than Israelis endure in reciprocation.

Israel's supporters are quick to deny any responsibility for the Palestinian deaths caused by the Israeli Military, saying that the Palestinians must, by now, know what to expect when attacks are made by Palestinian militants on Israeli civilians.

But it seems that the opposite, [i]quid pro quo[/i] sentiment does not hold.

It should be just as obvious to the Israelis, what to expect when attacks are made by Israeli Government forces on Palestinian civilians. Such attacks aren't just those borne by hi-tech munitions, but also my sanctions, blockades and other, not necessarily directly violent means.

The equivalency in this Conflict is not moral, it is Human.

The most gung-ho of Israel's supporters are those who, if their own homes or lives were subject to the same treatment as Palestinians - and if they were being honest - would respond in at least as militant and violent a way as some Palestinians do.

The Palestinians should know what to expect if they fire rockets at Israel: therefore Palestinian deaths at the hands of the Israeli military are really the fault and responsibility of Palestinians.

The Israelis should know what to expect if they fire rockets at Palestinians, if they continue to keep imprisoned the 1.5 million inhabitants of the Gaza Strip: therefore Israeli deaths and injuries at the hands of Palestinian militants are really the fault and responsibility of Israelis.

I'm a Pacifist, and even [b]*I*[/b] would fight back if my home were being attacked, or my family and friends forced to live under brutal oppression and the threats of random terrorism. But our "Friends of Israel", whilst maintaining, promoting and encouraging the right of Israelis to fight back, declare the same actions of Palestinians to be wholly illegitimate.

I just don't know how they can think like that without their brains melting.

[face_peace]