[quote=vaxx86][quote=Holyman2012][color=blue]Israel's supporters, yourself included, froth at the mouth about the despicable nature of Hamas' attacks on Israeli civilians. And whilst people like you imagine the Israeli civilian death toll to be far higher than it actually is, it doesn't change the fact that the primary justification you use to support Israel's actions, is Hamas' targeting and killing of Israeli civilians. A foul and wholly unjustifiable crime, as far as you are concerned, when it is Palestinians killing (or trying to kill) Israeli civilians.[/color] [/quote]

[color=red] Despite the way you portray it, a lot of us are on a middle ground about this. The whole thing is bad, and a mess, and you may have a point about this assault simply making things worse...

But do you honestly think that the rocket attacks are so trivial the Israelis should just "tolerate" it ?

Just part of being Israeli, you may get randomly blown up. Do you at least see that the Israeli gov't is in a tough position here...they are accountable for protecting their people.[/color][/quote]

The Israeli Government [b]*IS*[/b] in a tough position, I agree. Of course they must act to defend and protect their people. I agree with that too, and furthermore, acting to defend and protect - even using violence to do so - is not something that conflicts with my Pacifism.

However, I would say that the actions that the Israeli Government has taken in recent weeks - and in the past in general - are clearly only going to create greater threats to Israeli citizens Peace and Security.

That is a given.

The Israeli Government could, conceivably, in this latest round of the Conflict, completely eradicate the Hamas Leadership, and Hamas as a force to be reckoned with in the Gaza Strip and Palestine.

But what would happen after that?

Would Palestinians finally accept that they are entirely at the mercy of Israel, and just sit back and wait for Israel to decide how it wants to treat Palestinians and Palestine in the future?

Of course not.

The eradication of Hamas would simply create a vacuum that would be filled by a new "Hamas" - or a new "PLO" - and this Hamas v2.0 would likely be more militant, more extreme, more violent and more threatening than Hamas currently is.

It is almost a Biblical Parable that our hostile and negative actions will always create greater threats.

There was a time, at the end of the 1980's, when Yasser Arafat's PLO was beginning to earn more international credibility than the then Israeli Government was comfortable with. The PLO had, in response to international entreaty, largely surrendered its militant/terrorist activity; and in so doing paved the way for the International Community to convene the conferences at Madrid and Oslo.

So concerned were the Israelis by this, that they supported a new Palestinian organisation that was only founded in 1987, as a rival to the PLO, in order to sow division within the Palestinian Community. This new organisation, Hamas, in contrast to the PLO's secular-nationalism, was an Islamist Organisation that saw Yasser Arafat as at least as much of an enemy as Israel.

And that suited Israel, at the time.

But by the time that the PLO - and later Fatah - had made numerous concessions in Peace talks with the Israelis, and received nothing in return, Hamas became the force within Palestinian politics that held the most credibility with the Palestinian People. A fact finally and fully confirmed when it triumphed in the 2006 Palestinian Authority Elections.

But neither the PLO, Fatah or Hamas were or are anything more than political representations of the will of the Palestinian People to gain their independence from Israel, end more than forty years of occupation, and to allow more than a million Palestinian refugees to return to their homeland.

The PLO begat Fatah; Fatah begat Hamas; and Hamas begat Islamic Jihad and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.

Eradicating Hamas does not and cannot eradicate Israel's Conflict with the Palestinians, nor neutralise the threats that Israeli citizens face from militant Palestinian action.

The Israeli Government [b]*DOES*[/b] have a responsibility to protect and defend its Citizens. But that responsibility means that it [b]*MUST*[/b] try any and all policies that might or will secure a long-term and lasting Peace and security for Israel.

One of the definitions of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again, and expecting a different result.

Clearly, Israel's singular obsession with trying to find a military solution to its Conflict with the Palestinians is not working and cannot work. If the Israeli Government wishes to truly fulfil its responsibility to its People, then it must pursue any possible avenue that might lead to a lasting Peace.

But in the run-up to next month's General Election in Israel, all Israel has is three or four Prime Ministerial candidates trying to out-do each other in the bellicosity and belligerence stakes. Not a one of them politically able to even hint at opening dialogue with Hamas, let alone begin the path to recognising a Palestinian State.

Meanwhile, the democratically elected Government of the Palestinians - Hamas - have an equal responsibility to protect and defend [b]*ITS*[/b] citizens.

And far from being the irrational, unreasonable and maximalist group of religious nutters that Foota would like to paint Hamas as; the Hamas Leadership has repeatedly demonstrated its willingness to enter into long-term Peace negotiations with Israel.

If nothing else, it must be acknowledged that Hamas participated in a six-month long ceasefire; a sign of its willingness to negotiate. The Hamas leadership was prepared to extend the ceasefire, requiring only that Israel lift its two-year long blockade of the Gaza Strip, and cease its military incursions into Gaza (something that Israel did not do during the ceasefire).

But the Israeli Government refuses to recognise Hamas as a political or diplomatic entity, just as it refuses to recognise the legitimacy of a Palestinian State.

And this purely because of domestic Israeli politics; where any mention of rapprochement with the Palestinians equals political suicide.

And all the while, the Israeli military continues to slaughter vast numbers of Palestinian civilians, undermining its own moral legitimacy, making itself a pariah state internationally, and most crucially of all: guaranteeing the continued hostility and rage of current and future Palestinian militants.

The Israeli Government certainly does have a responsibility to protect its own citizens; but its actions invite and virtually guarantee further insecurity and an increased threat of violence.

[face_peace]