[quote=Foota21178388][quote=Holyman2012][color=blue]That is what Fatah (previously the P.L.O.) is pushing for, and is also [b]what the Hamas leadership has indicated its willingness to accept[/b].[/color][/quote]

[color=red]Yeah - right.

Hamas can't even be bothered to change its genocidal Charter that explicitly says there can be no negotiations (only short term Hudnas) and their goal is to drive all the Jews into the sea.  Hamas won't make the slightest physical step to move towards a peace deal.  Hamas is turning Gaza into the equivalent of the Taliban run Afghanistan and letting their people suffer under the blockade for 3 years.

But you would have us to believe that it is primarily Israel's responsibility for the intractable situation in Gaza?

Israel has a long history of negotiating land for peace with their former enemies (Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan and numerous offers for a 2-State solution to Arafat and Abbas).

Name one single proactive step or painful concession the Palestinians (specifically Hamas) has done to show reciprocity and want peace?[/color][/quote]

Oh Foota, you and I have covered this same ground so many times in the past...

If there's any single reason why the Israel-Palestine Conflict has proved so intractable, it is because people like you, on both the Israeli and Palestinian side of the argument, absolutely refuse to countenance or recognise any merit to the other side's position.

Alright...

Let me try to explain it again once more.

The issue is that Israel has occupied sovereign Palestinian Territory for more than 40 years.

It has done this in violation of repeated United Nations Resolutions; in violation of International Law; and against the desires of every other single nation on Earth, including the United States.

OK.

The territory that Israel occupies is not Hamas' territory: it is the Palestinians' territory.

Hamas as an entity has only been in existence for about half the duration of the Occupation.

Hamas as a radicalised, militant entity exists because of Israel's absolute refusal to consider any steps that might lead to a viable Palestinian State. It exists and is further radicalised because of Israel's repeated offensive military actions against the Palestinian people.

The Palestinian people had a representative organisation that it put much of its faith in long before Hamas appeared on the scene. This organisation was the Palestinian Liberation Organisation, which has now become Fatah.

Before Hamas was active, Yassir Arafat's PLO offered and agreed to many concessions. Not least of which was its acceptance of the 1967 borders, rather than the original 1948 borders, as defining the Two State Solution.

Despite offering these concessions, Israel still refused to consider or agree to the Two State Solution. Furthermore, it continued to build Jewish-only settlements in East Jerusalem, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.

This caused the PLO/Fatah/Yassir Arafat to lose significant credibility in the eyes of hard-line, radicalised Palestinians, who turned instead to Hamas, who took a much less compromising position.

Today, Fatah in the West Bank is seen as a quisling organisation, with Mahmoud Abbas as a craven leader, bowing and scraping to Israel's demands. Far from Fatah's co-operation leading to any form of reconciliation or concessions from the Israelis, it's actions haven't even been able to get the Israelis to stop building Jewish-only settlements in East Jerusalem and the West Bank.

Back in March, at the time of U.S. Vice-President Joe Biden's visit to Israel, the Israeli Government even announced an expansion of settler operations in the Occupied Territories. This was seen as a direct snub to the U.S. Government, and threatened to open a huge rift between Israel and its sole international benefactor. If it wasn't for the forthcoming mid-term elections, it is highly likely that the reaction from the White House and Foggy Bottom would have been much harsher than was actually heard. In private, there was no doubting that President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton were absolutely fuming.

Meanwhile, over in the Gaza Strip, Palestinians point at the actions and concessions of the Fatah Government of the West Bank and say, "See! Nothing good can come from making concessions to Israel! Israel holds all the cards, acts with impunity, follows its own course, and wants nothing less than the establishment of a Jewish Greater Israel throughout Palestine!"

This anger and resentment, fuelled by Israel's murderous military incursion into the Gaza Strip in 2008, has the effect of radicalising enough Palestinians to further entrench support for Hamas' militancy.

There is a very similar dynamic in reverse too. There are elements of the Israeli coalition government who are just as militant as Hamas. And their champion, Avigdor Lieberman, even holds the post of Israel's Foreign Minister. These Far- and Ultra-Right Israeli factions are every bit as militant and uncompromising as Hamas, and want nothing less than the complete expulsion of Muslims from what they consider to be the Land that God promised to the Jews.

Hamas' militancy is a God-send to the Israeli Government. If Hamas didn't exist, the Israelis would have to invent it.

Nobody on the Right-Wing of Israeli politics wants to make any concessions at all to the Palestinians. And nobody wants to see the Palestinians exist in anything more than Apartheid-like Bantustans... At the absolute most.

In other words, Hamas' uncompromising militancy and predilection for violence is entirely and happily mirrored within the democratic Israeli political establishment.

If you were an Israeli Foota, you would be voting for the Far-Right Israeli factions.

And if you were a Palestinian Foota: you would be voting for Hamas.

[face_peace]