[quote=Superslacks][color=green]Can someone clarify something for me? Is the Rafah crossing between Egypt and Gaza completely under the control of the Egyptians? From my googling it appears that Egypt won't leave the border crossing open until Fatah are in control in Gaza (unlikely anytime soon).

If so, why don't Egypt allow aid to get through the Rafah crossing? Do they have some sort of agreement with Israel, or would it just be a pointless endevaour because the Israelis would simply head in and take control from the Gaza side of the crossing?[/color][/quote]

Aah, Egypt. Jewel of the Nile; Land of the Pharaohs; the Birthplace of Civilisation...

And for the last 60 years, a military dictatorship. And for the last 30 of those years, a military dictatorship that is also the second greatest recipient of U.S. economic and military aid after Israel.

The kind of Arab State that the Americans and Israel *CAN* do business with, in other words...

As far as the Rafah Border Crossing between Egypt and the Gaza Strip goes, well, as of yesterday, it was re-opened by the Egyptians, until further notice.

Egypt had kept it closed since the summer of 2007, when Hamas became the dominant political force within the Gaza Strip (though they opened it briefly during Israel's Christmas bombardment of Gaza in 2008).

There are two main reasons why the Egyptians liked to keep the Rafah Crossing closed.

The first is that the Israeli and U.S. Governments prefer Egypt to keep it closed, in order to maintain the blockade of the Gaza Strip that has been in place since Israel withdrew all Jewish settlers and turned the Gaza Strip into the World's (and History's) largest concentration camp.

The second reason is that the Egyptian government does not want to deal with the influx of Palestinian refugees that try to flee Gaza every time the Rafah Crossing is opened. This partly because of the economic cost of caring for the refugees; but mostly because of the particular brand of militant Islamism that is prevalent amongst Palestinians in the Gaza Strip. The Egyptian Government of Hosni Mubarak (President since 1981) has zero democratic legitimacy and is a primarily military dictatorship. It works very hard and very, very viciously to try and keep a lid on Islamism within its own borders, and doesn't need radicalised Palestinians coming in and stirring the pot.

Of course, the Egyptian Government also has one eye on its standing within the Arab League, and has to play a delicate balancing game between being a "Friend of Israel" and a "Good, Muslim-Arab Nation". And now that Turkey's government is no longer dominated by a NATO-friendly military, and is leaning more and more towards a civilian (religious...) orientation, Egypt could very easily find itself quite isolated as the only Muslim Nation not diplomatically opposed to the current Israeli Government.

So it has no alternative but to open the Rafah Crossing, following Israel's weekend actions against the Turkish-flagged ships that were headed towards Gaza.

...

As for Israel's actions...

Blindingly stupid seems to be the only way to describe them.

There was no conceivable way that using the Israeli military to conduct a police operation against civilian vessels was going to end well.

It was never a military issue in the first place: it was a political one. What the activists on the ships were primarily trying to do was to bring the World's attention to the 3-year long Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip. A few thousand tonnes of over-ripe tomatoes, some containers full of second-hand clothes, and a token amount of building materials was never going to really disturb the dynamic within and around the Gaza Strip. The object of the exercise was to highlight the injustice (and incidentally, illegality) of the Israeli's collective punishment of the population of the Gaza Strip.

Clearly, the Israeli Government would have preferred that this didn't happen; that the World would carry on largely ignoring its policies in the Gaza Strip, particularly the blockade. But the current Israeli Government clearly couldn't come up with any alternative solution to the challenge, but the military one that they decided upon.

Tellingly, there is very little support for this action within Israel itself. The Right-Wing Israeli Press are calling the operation a shambles because it [i]wasn't military enough[/i] ("...why oh why were the commandos only armed with paintball-guns and pistols?"; "Why weren't the ships sabotaged and disabled?"). And the Liberal/Intellectual Israeli Press is shaking its head and wringing its hands over the sheer bloody-minded stupidity of the political strategists who decided upon using the military for this police action:

[quote][color=blue][i]" During the 2006 war in Lebanon I concluded that my 15-year-old daughter could have conducted it more wisely than the Olmert-Peretz government. We've progressed. Today it's clear to me that my 6-year-old son could do much better than our current government. Even a child would have seen the imbalance in the risk-threat assessment in overpowering the flotilla ships. Any smart kid would understand that you don't sacrifice what is important for what is not. But the cabinet did not understand. Under the leadership of Netanyahu, Barak and Ya'alon it came to a patently unreasonable decision. It was a decision of complete fools."[/i][/color][/quote]

http://www.haaretz.com/print-edition/news/fiasco-on-the-high-seas-1.293415

I think that there are two particular dynamics at play within Israeli politics that causes Israeli Governments to continually take such gloweringly counter-productive decisions.

The first is the belief or idea that Israel hitting hard and fast, with overwhelming force and giving no quarter is the only purposeful military response. It worked to devastating effect in the Six Day War in 1967, and the Israelis have been trying to repeat that tactic in every engagement - large or small - since 1973.

The idea, I suppose, is that Israel's enemies must sooner or later realise that there simply is no point trying to take on the Israeli military, as it will visit any sin against it ten-fold back at the sinner. Everything becomes about "teaching lessons" to Israel's enemies; about demonstrating the absolute futility of trying to oppose Israel by force.

The problem with this idea is that it simply and quite evidently hasn't worked since 1967. No matter how many times that Israel unleashes its devastating forces upon its enemies (military, paramilitary and civilian), when the dust settles, its enemies are not only still standing, they are reinvigorated and reinforced by their survival, and by the condemnation of Israel's tactics that inevitably follows.

The second dynamic that keeps Israel's relations with the Rest of the World (apart from the U.S., of course) at such a low ebb, is just how successful Israeli propaganda is at convincing Israelis that their government hasn't just mightily fucked up.

Whether it be an incident like this recent one, the recent diplomatic snubbing of Israel's two closest allies (the U.S. and Turkey), the unnecessary, pointless and counter-productive bombardment of Gaza in 2008, or the failed attack on Hezbollah/Lebanon in 2006: Israeli propaganda always goes into hyper-drive to try to demonstrate a clear conscience and lack of diplomatic, political and moral guilt.

Most frequently by blaming the victims of Israel's military actions.

And the problem with this is that Israelis, naturally patriotic, never get a chance to consider just how spectacularly moronic their successive governments actually are. The average Israeli will naturally feel inclined to defend the actions of their own state, especially when that state is facing Global condemnation. And because of this, they will lap up every bit of propaganda designed to show that Israel was actually just "defending itself", rather than launching any unprovoked military hostilities against a much weaker opponent.

And because many Israelis hungrily devour this propaganda, they never stop to think: hold on a minute; maybe our government is just a bunch of inept and unimaginative morons, who are doing more harm to the Israeli cause with their blundering and over-powered reliance on military force, than a million Islamist terrorists could ever hope to achieve.

Whatever else happened on the High Seas this last weekend, it is clear that the Israeli Defence Cabinet's decision (not unanimous, btw:  Cabinet Secretary, Zvi Hauser, recommended letting the flotilla sail on to Gaza) to let the Israeli military capture the ships was [b]*ALWAYS*[/b] going to be a diplomatic and public relations disaster. It is impossible to conceive of a way that decision [b]*COULD*[/b] have produced a positive or beneficial outcome for Israel.

And so I'm minded at this point to completely ignore the ins-and-outs of what precisely took place once the Israeli military got involved; and focus solely on the counter-productive, short-sighted and bloody stupid decision of the politicians who dreamed up this response to the "Peace Armada".

Silly, silly people.

[face_peace]