[quote=SomeGuy[PCNC]][color=red]2) It is historically more Israeli because they were the first people still in existence today to have claim to the region. Do you really think the Old Temple of Jerusalem and the Church at Bethlehem marking the site of Jesus Christ's birth (according to the Christian Bible) were constructed in the last 100 years? The archaeological evidence in favor of Jewish claim is far earlier than Muslim claim. As I said it dates back to Roman times. Also one other factor and Holyman is gonna spout off like he usually does, the Bible itself. Yes it is a religious book, BUT it is THE oldest surviving written historical log in human history. Many of its depicted events, locations and peoples are real and have either present-day or archaeological evidence to back that up. The Israeli people had claim to that area since the days of the Romans and earlier. Islam formed as a religion circa 600 CE, the Roman Empire fell in 473 CE. Roman occupation of Israel dates back to before 0 CE (Christ's birth in Biblical numerics).[/color][/quote]

Heh. :)

Have you ever actually read the Bible?

It certainly is [b]*NOT*[/b] the "oldest surviving written historical log in human history"... Having a provenance dating back no earlier than 1500 B.C.E., and itself being based on many, older (c. 2,500 - 2,000 B.C.E.) and still surviving written scriptures and stories from the region; most notably many Akkadian and Sumerian cunieform tablets.

You'd also have to consider the many surviving Egyptian hieroglyphic records (c. 3,500 B.C.E. onwards) of Human History that easily pre-date the Hebrew Bible; and a large variety of Phonecian records to boot.

Many of which are available for viewing in the British Museum btw; I'd be delighted to show and explain them to you, if you're ever in Town. :)

Of course, if you had read the Bible, or were even remotely aware of its basic content, you would recall that a chap called Moses led the Jews out of Egypt, to the land promised to them by G-d, guaranteed by G-d's Covenant with Abraham, and known as Canaan.

These Egyptian-born Hebrews considered themselves the descendants of Abraham, through his grandson Jacob also-known-as Israel, and therefore called themselves Israelites.

However, the land that the Israelites called Canaan, was rather unfortunately already occupied by the, uh, [link=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canaan]Canaanites[/link].

No matter: the Israelites were on a mission from G-d; and under the command of Joshua, the Canaanites were soon massacred, and the land of Canaan was divided amongst the Twelve Tribes of Israel.

So, we know from the Bible, as well as other contemporary sources, that the area we now know as Israel was formerly occupied by non-Hebrews - in fact, people more closely related to those now living in Lebanon. And that it was taken by brutal force, and appropriated by the Israelites.

But even with that invasion, it wasn't until King David that the Hebrews conquered the city now known as Jerusalem. And you can probably tell by my use of the term "conquered", that Jerusalem wasn't a vacant lot, waiting for the Hebrew tribes to take up residence.

Unfortunately - and perhaps inevitably - we read in the Books of Exodus and Judges, that the Israelites had a devil of a job holding their state together, and it wasn't too long before their land was conquered: first by the Assyrians, in the 8th Century B.C.E., and then more completely by the Babylonians in the 6th Century B.C.E.

The Babylonians were then conquered by the Persians, who were in turn conquered by the Greeks under Alexander the Great.

During this period of conquest and re-conquest, the Jews were variously permitted to return to the area, depending on how well disposed each subsequent conqueror felt towards them; but never as independent or autonomous rulers of their own State.

Following the collapse of the Greek-descended Seleucid Kingdom, there is a brief period of autonomous rule for the Jews, between 165 and 63 B.C.E., until, would you know it, the whole thing crumbled down into civil war. And then, the people of the region actually [b]*INVITED*[/b] the Roman Consul Pompey to come in and take things over!

That's right: rather than the Jews losing Judea/Israel to conquest; they actually surrendered it to the (then) Roman Republic.

That Roman Republic became the Roman Empire; which in turn became the Byzantine Empire. The region was then taken off the Byzantine Empire by a newly formed Empire, going under the title "Islamic", in 638 C.E.

There's a brief pause in Islamic rule of the region, around the 11th, 12th and 13th Centuries C.E., when Christians from the West crusade in, and behave rather ghastly towards both Muslims and Jews in the region; before Islam is restored as the dominant faction under first the Mamluks, and then the Ottoman Turks.

The Ottoman Turks then rule the region from the 14th Century C.E., right up to the 20th Century; when after losing World War One, it is turned over to British Rule, under a League of Nations mandate.

And I guess the rest is known to most. :)

Now, one other factor that a reading of the Old Testament would raise, on the subject of Jewish sovereignty of Israel, is the small matter of the Jewish Exile, by G-d (apparently), from the Promised Land.

The Torah actually instructs that having been exiled and dispersed from the land of Israel, by G-d, for failing to uphold His law; any attempt by the Jewish People to form even "the most insignificant form of government", will only delay the arrival of the Son of David (the Jewish Messiah).

Rabbi Shlomo Yitzhaqi (1040 - 1105 C.E.), also known as Rashi, explains in his Talmudic commentary:

[quote][color=blue]"That absolutely no sovereign governmental body of the Jewish People shall exist, even the most minor or trivial type of regime".[/color][/quote]

Talmud Sanhedrin 98a

Source: http://www.jewsagainstzionism.com/scriptures/scriptures/scriptures1.pdf

So you see SomeGuy, not only do the Jewish people have an extremely tenuous claim to sovereignty in Palestine based on the Historical Record; by their own scripture, they are on very dodgy ground, going against their deity, by even forming their own government, let alone setting up shop in the Modern State of Israel.

Now I realise that most of what I've written will have whistled straight past what passes for you brain; but I figure that others here might find it edifying to understand a small portion of the complex, vibrant and almost entirely non-Jewish History of that benighted corner of our World we know as Palestine/Israel.

Peace