[quote=SomeGuy[PCNC]][color=red]Except what is going on in Gaza is NOT a bank robbery, it's a goddamned WAR. What part of war don't you understand?

In a war civilians are collateral, you either hit them or you don't. If the enemy purposefully hides behind them as Hamas does, you cannot avoid hitting civilians.

There are no rifles accurate enough, no bombs smart enough, nor weapons discriminatory enough to not harm civilians. In every war ever fought, civilians have been harmed. That is unlikely to change no matter what Geneva says.[/color][/quote]

But this is not War SG.

No state of War exists or has been declared between the State of Israel and the State of Palestine.

Aside from the fact that in order to declare War on Palestine, the Israeli Government would first have to recognise the State of Palestine, the Israelis cannot afford to have Palestinians in the West Bank set on a War footing.

If Israel did first recognise the State of Palestine and then declare War on it, it would immediately have to fight that War on three fronts: in the Gaza Strip; in the West Bank; and over the Lebanese border.

This is not something that Israel is not prepared to do, and it is debatable whether it would be capable of conducting such an operation successfully anyway.

Israel hasn't fought a successful military campaign since 1973, and the Yom Kippur War was largely a draw. This is because Israel's "Wars" are not Wars in the conventional, 3rd Generation sense of the word. Rather, Israel's opponents for the last 30 years or so have been stateless, paramilitary, 4th Generation warriors.

Israel can never win a victory against these fighters, fighting on 4GW terms. By contrast, all that the Hamas, PLO, Hezbollah, Islamic Jihad, PFLP (etc.) fighters need to do to win, is survive an Israeli onslaught.

Hezbollah's standing in the region, for example, was greatly elevated by the way it endured the 2006 attack on Lebanon by Israeli Forces. By contrast, the pursuit of that unwinnable Conflict is one of the primary reasons why Ehud Olmert must stand down as Israeli Premier next month; and why many of Israel's top military brass lost their jobs as a result of the failure to completely eradicate Hezbollah in 2006.

Point being that no state of War exists between Israel and any other State or Nation at the present juncture.

Israel's explanation for its actions is that it is responding to attacks on Israeli civilians, coming from the Gaza Strip.

Israel's supporters, yourself included, froth at the mouth about the despicable nature of Hamas' attacks on Israeli civilians. And whilst people like you imagine the Israeli civilian death toll to be far higher than it actually is, it doesn't change the fact that the primary justification you use to support Israel's actions, is Hamas' targeting and killing of Israeli civilians. A foul and wholly unjustifiable crime, as far as you are concerned, when it is Palestinians killing (or trying to kill) Israeli civilians.

But as soon as Israel begins to kill far higher numbers of Palestinian civilians, suddenly it's "All's fair in Love and War."

Since no State of War has been declared by Israel, its actions can only be, at best, a Police action to eliminate the threat posed to its own citizens. But in pursuance of that Police action, it becomes guilty of far more numerous and far more horrifying crimes than anything the most extreme Palestinian militants could ever dream of achieving.

Ultimately, of course, Israel's actions are doubly counter-productive:

In the first instance they cause outrage in the Rest of the Civilised World (except in the uncivilised parts of the United States); and in the second instance the only thing that Israel's actions are guaranteed to achieve, is that more and more Palestinians, with nothing left to lose, will feel nothing but rage and hostility towards Israel and Israelis; guaranteeing that Israelis will continue to live under the threat of attack from Palestinian militants for many more years to come.

The only real surprise at the moment, is that Palestinians in the Gaza Strip are still managing to exercise restraint on the doubtlessly great number of enraged Palestinians who would gladly turn themselves into suicide bombs.

At the moment, of course...

[face_peace]