[quote=AggiesRevenge][color=firebrick]Another factor you get into would be dealing directly with putting troops into the urban environment.  Loss of comrades, frustration, fog of war, and a thousand other issues come to play on the psyche of the Israeli soldiers.  In turn this results in increased brutality and even worse crimes against civilians.  This has been a common theme in urban combat since Napoleon's retreat from Moscow.

Israel could go back to its assassination policy and eliminate threats directly to theme, however, this policy resulted in the death of innocents as well.

I am not saying there massive retaliation is right.  I am saying from there perspective they are surrounded by enemies, including a large nation on the verge of nuclear power, that have threatened their existence.  When they are met with an internal threat, they see the need to maintain their combat power above all to protect themselves from the external threat.[/color][/quote]

It's interesting how classify the threat of Hamas' rocket attacks as an "internal threat".

Palestine is an independent sovereign nation, mandated by the same United Nations resolution that created Israel as an independent sovereign nation. Palestine is also a sovereign nation that is militarily occupied by Israel in the West Bank, and militarily blockaded by Israel in the Gaza Strip.

The "threat" of rocket attacks from Gaza is not an internal threat, it is a response to Israel's military blockade.

Furthermore, the "threat" is no greater than the threat posed to just about every Western Society by street criminals: twenty Israelis killed by rocket attacks in 8 years is considerably less of a statistical threat than most of us face each time we step outside of our doors.

Given all this, is it really a threat that justifies the wholesale destruction of the Gaza Strip wrought by Israel, and the killing of 500 Palestinian women and children?

From the Israeli perspective, Israel is a nuclear-armed nation that enjoys the unequivocal protection of the greatest military power on the Planet, and which no neighbouring Arab nation would dare attack, even if it had the remotest capacity to imagine it [b]*COULD*[/b] launch a successful attack.

There is no evidence whatsoever to suggest that Iran is developing a nuclear weapons programme; and no evidence (or common sense) to suggest that Iran would immediately launch a nuclear attack on Israel, the moment it came into possession of nuclear weapons (which it really doesn't appear to be developing).

In short, Israel faces no threat to its existence, internal or external.

The only threat that Israel [b]*DOES*[/b] face, is to its Government's policy of territorial expansion.

In 2008, the Israeli Government accelerated its programme of building Jewish-only settlements in the West Bank, in direct conflict with its obligations to various Peace initiatives.

http://www.iht.com/articles/ap/2009/01/28/news/ML-Israel-Settlements.php

Israel has no intention of surrendering any of the territory it occupies in the West Bank, and has no intention of allowing Palestinians in the Gaza Strip to function as a viable independent nation. It is looking increasingly likely that Netanyahu will win next month's Prime Ministerial Election; and as the most Right-Wing of the three front-running candidates is certain to oppose any Peace Process - howsoever brokered - as surely as he did when he was last Prime Minister, from 1996 - 1999.

No contingent of the Israeli Government wants to surrender or dismantle Israeli settlements in the West Bank; and no candidate for high office in next month's elections dares to even suggest such a thing. Inflaming Palestinian rage and hatred to the point where the Palestinians appear to behave as unreasonable and irrational terrorists is a sure fire way of justifying Israel's refusal to make any such concessions.

And it is for that reason, and that reason alone that the Israelis inflict such disproportionate and morally abhorrent violence and suffering on the Palestinians in the Gaza Strip.

[face_peace]