[quote=lonelyjew][color=green]I'm not going to pretend to be an expert in internal Israeli politics.  If there is an ulterior motive in this, to destabilize the peace talks, that's terrible, but you could just as easily be bad timing for a bill that is completely reasonable.  Your argument for them not having it in the past, therefor they don't need it now, doesn't really make sense to me, because maybe they would have been better off having it(though honestly, again, I don't see this having any real world effect).  [/color][/quote]

I do understand the polarising effect that the Israeli-Palestinian situation has on people. That with each turn, people are either automatically for or against Israel.

I'd like to think that I don't always get sucked into that kind of Automated Response Vortex...

Certainly, I've got no issue at all with Israel's Jewishness. There are plenty of Muslim states that require oaths of allegiance to Allah and Islam, and those oaths are presumably taken with one hand on a copy of the Koran.

Like I said, Israel is entitled to do whatever it chooses.

However, the corollary to that is that people outside of Israel are equally entitled to form and voice whatever opinion they may on Israel's actions, and in this case, on the timing of Israel's actions.

And that's not necessarily a courtesy that Israel's defenders extend to Israel's detractors, with the charge of "Anti-Semitism" being the standard retort to any intellectually indefensible charge levelled at Israel.

In this instance, the World is getting pretty sick of the whole Israel-Palestine Conflict. Everyone, up to and including the most senior U.S. military personnel, and the President of the U.S., recognises that the Conflict is, rightly or wrongly, a touchstone for all manner of other violent conflicts taking place around the World today.

It's like we are living in a neighbourhood where two families are constantly feuding. The rest of us don't particularly have an axe to grind in the feud; though some of us have been complicit in creating and maintaining the conditions within which the feud continues.

The general understanding is that the Israeli Clan is a bit more respectable, a bit more sophisticated, and a bit more enlightened than the Palestinian Hillbillies.

Certainly when it spills over into violence - as it frequently does - we know that the Israeli boys tend to use more sophisticated weapons and more respectable methods of fighting than the Palestinian Clan does.

So our sympathies do tend more towards the Clan that appears to more closely resemble our own Way of Life; that appears to be more willing to abide by our the Covenants, Conditions & Restrictions the majority of us would like to see in force in our Neighbourhood.

However, it does also appear that every time the rest of us get together to try and intervene in the dispute, to try and achieve a resolution, the more sophisticated and up-market Israeli Clan does have a tendency to inflame the situation, whenever it looks as though it might be cooling down.

Distil the analogy down yet further.

Let's say it is a fight between two people outside a bar. Those of us who crowded out to watch the fight take place, know very well who started it.

Of course we do.

We even know who has been the most belligerent and unreasonable antagonist. We know who has fought most dirty and most viciously. We know who has refused to back down, even when it was apparent to *EVERYONE* that they had lost the fight, and just shouldn't get up again, next time they are knocked down (and they *WILL* be knocked down again, if they get up).

In short, we know, as witnesses to the fracas, who the Police Officers should arrest and detain, when they finally arrive on the scene.

But here's the thing. When the Police turn up, their first action must be to diffuse and placate the situation. To cool tempers, arrest any further violence, and try to establish just what, exactly, has taken place, and who is, ultimately, to blame.

Now as witnesses to the whole thing, we are all expecting the obvious belligerent to be taken away in the squad car, just as soon as the Police have calmed everything down.

What we are not expecting, once the Police are on the scene, is for the poor victim (who successfully and easily defended themselves, and was never in any real danger), to continue to provoke and incite their assailant, whilst the Police are trying to cool things down.

What is even more unexpected, is the way that the Police don't seem to be inclined to warn or advise the victim to relax and calm down. Rather, it seems that their job of arresting the assailant is made all the more difficult, because the assailant continues to react to the provocations and retaliations of their victim.

In the Real World, the Police would either remove the victim to a place of safety, for rest, recuperation and counselling. Or they would threaten to arrest the victim for behaviour likely to result in a Breach of the Peace.

But in this instance, the "Police" seem scared of saying anything to the "Victim" that the "Victim" doesn't want to hear; or attempting in any way to restrain the "Victim" from continued actions that - it is clear to all witnesses - are only further inflaming the situation.

Oh, sure, there are an increasing number of witnesses who shouting that the Police are arresting the wrong person. Who are saying that the continued actions of the "Victim", now that the "Police" are on the scene, should be all the evidence that the "Police" should need to see who the *REAL* assailant is.

But the "Police", that is, those who possess the actual power of restraint, arrest and detention, seem to be as oblivious to this, as they are to the continued incitements and provocations of the "Victim".

So that's pretty much how I see the situation LJ. It's got nothing to do with Jewishness or Muslim-ness. It's got nothing to do with Zionism or Caliphatism. It's certainly got nothing to do with Right- or Left-Wingery.

It's all about wanting to live in a Peaceful Neighbourhood.

[face_peace]