In Reply To #111

In Reply To #107

Which nation's past actions do I "seem to be forgiving of"?

It is not an issue of which nations that you forgive Holyman, it is an issue of which nations you choose to selectively demonize and vilify.

When I see you work up as much passion about Russia, France, Iran, China, Russia, India, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Burma, North Korea, Somalia, Syria - then I will think you are consistent.

Until then, I will keep calling you out for your selective vilification of Israel.

It is as simple as that.

No, no Foota, let ME tell YOU how simple it is.

Personally, politically, socially, practically and actively, I am against all forms of non-sporting violence.

There is much violence in our World and it takes many forms.

I have identified just ONE source of violence as being, in my opinion, the greatest source of violence in our Society. Currently, I identify the Bush Administration of the United States' Government as the greatest source of violence in our Society. More people die and are grievously injured as a result of the decisions made by the Bush Administration than die as the result of any single other individual or group of humans on the Planet.

That is my opinion, and we can and do argue the live long day whether or not that is a correct or plausible opinion.

Because it is my opinion, I want to do something about it.

The Bush Administration doesn't listen to and ignores the United States Congress: what chance they'd listen to me? I can't do anything to directly affect the minds and attitudes of members of the Bush Administration.

But, I can do something to try and affect the minds and attitudes of people who support the Bush Administration.

You support the Bush Administration Foota, so too do several other members of the =PBF= Community. And so, in amongst the general chit-chat and conversation around here, and in between all the other activities with which I choose to fill my life, I spend some of my time trying to affect the minds and attitudes of people like you, in the hope that you will withdraw your support for the Bush Administration.

You ask Foota, why I don't express the same passions about "Russia, France, Iran, China, Russia, India, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Burma, North Korea, Somalia, Syria..."

Tell me Foota, how many members of the =PBF= Community openly, vociferously and dogmatically express positive support for the ruling governments of any of those countries?

You call me out for not working up as much passion about the activities of those governments Foota, compared to the passion with which I attack the activities of the governments of the United States, the United Kingdom and Israel. But Foota, the "passion" you detect is yours. It is the passion with which you defend the actions of the U.S. and Israel. Not one other person around here expresses the same passionate defence of ANY of the countries you listed. Therefore I don't need to denounce the actions of those governments, passionately or otherwise, to anyone here.

Why don't you try, for a moment, pretending you are as ardent a supporter of the government of the People's Republic of China as you actually are of the U.S. Government? I'll go along with the conceit and we can have a debate where you try to defend the actions of the PRC. Then you can see how passionate I get about the actions and activities of the Chinese government.

But you wouldn't, couldn't and don't, so we won't.

What is it you feel strongly about Foota? Is it the gross iniquities of the governments you mention? Do your opinions of the governments of Iran, China and Russia compel you to do something about the actions of those governments?

Like me, I suspect you'd find it virtually impossible to directly affect the actions of the people in the government of Iran. But, like me, you could put yourself in the company of those who support the current Iranian government as explicitly and ceaselessly as you support the Bush Administration.

You could expend YOUR passions on those people who actually SUPPORT the actions of the Iranian or Russian or Chinese governments.

I don't support the actions of any political government, with the possible exception of some local Scandinavian governments. But I am particularly opposed to the actions of the Bush Administration. Therefore, when I encounter a supporter of the Bush Administration, I will try to reason and affect a change in their support for the Bush Administration.

I don't support the Iranian Government; so why do you treat me as though I do? I don't support the actions of the Russian, Chinese or Sudanese governments, yet you treat me as though I do.

If YOU supported the actions of any of those governments, and tried to defend those actions as predictably and relentlessly as you support the actions of the US Government; you would soon hear all the reasons why I don't support those governments either, and feel the same degree of passion that you feel in my rants and tirades against the US Government.

Simply then Foota, I don't get as passionate or vociferous about any government other than that of the United States and Israel: because no-one around here is trying to defend the actions of any other government.

As for you, if you are as passionate in your attitude against those other governments as I am against the US and Israeli governments, I do wonder why you don't spend more of your time debating and arguing with the people who support those governments.

Instead, you take the easier - and I have to say more cowardly - option, of attacking people who attack your government's policies and actions, as though they were supporters of whichever bogey-man, organisation or nation is this week's "Public Enemy Number 1" for your government.

I don't support any of the governments, organisations or religionists you regularly rail against Foota. To the best of my knowledge, not many others around here try to defend the indefensible actions and behaviours of all the violent wankers in our World.

You don't hear me denounce or rail against any other governments, because no-one here is trying to defend any other government.

So whose supporters exactly are you here to debate with Foota?

Peace