[quote=vaxx86][color=crimson]Yes I agree choppin off someone's head with a knife, is no different than choppin it off with a .50 or a LGB or whatever [/color] [/quote]

Actually, I'd say there was a very big difference; but not one that is going to be immediately obvious to those armed with .50 calibre rifles and Laser Guided Bombs.

The difference that [b]*IS*[/b] very obvious, is that .50 calibre rifles, and Laser Guided Bombs particularly, kill far more people, far more often, and far more indiscriminately than those chopping off heads with knives.

To understand the less obvious difference, you have to try and forget that you are a mighty American for one moment, forget that you are armed with the most sophisticated and plentiful weaponry on the planet, and imagine, if you can, that you are but a humble Arab or Muslim Jihadi, fighting Allah's Fight against the Great Satan of the West.

To the Arab and/or Jihadi, there is something intensely and religiously noble about killing someone with the simplest of weapons: the knife.

To hold another human being's life completely at your mercy, and then show no mercy, as you end their life in a barbaric and extravagant way, requires a great deal more personal conviction, than shooting someone from a mile away, or bombing them from 30,000 feet.

This isn't about psychopathology either.

Those armed with advanced personal weaponry and an effective Air Force, are killing far more people, far more dispassionately.

Sawing off a living person's head with a knife, requires far more personal conviction and dedication to cause, than simply pressing buttons or squeezing triggers.

Now, having pointed out the above, your natural reaction Vaxx - and I guess the natural reaction of several of our colleagues here - is going to be one of revulsion, at what appears to be an attempt by me to justify and/or excuse the actions of those Head-Chopping A-rabs.

Hold on to that feeling for a while Vaxx. Really examine how you feel about the head-chopping antics of those opposed to the United States' military endeavours in the Middle East. Really wallow in the waves of revulsion, rather than move straight to thinking about how you can shriek and wail at me for having the temerity to try and justify or equate the barbarity of Arabs, with the noble dignity of the American military.

Hold on to that feeling, because it's exactly the same feeling that those on the receiving end of America's aerial bombardments and rifle fire feel.

But with the key difference is that feeling amongst America's "Enemies", is far more widespread, because of the much greater numbers of humans killed by the U.S.

Peace