[quote=[CAT]Spandex][color=purple]Usually the stories revolve around some sort of fracas in a pub.[/color][/quote]

I think the word "fracas" should be used a lot more.

It's one of my favourite words.

And I suppose I might post a link like this to balance out some half-baked delusion oozing it's way across the pond; but I don't think I'd ever start a whole (so obviously trolling) topic on such a subject.

Actually, I was only thinking earlier that the reason that this story hadn't already been brought up by a yank - despite it being headline National news here - is because such occurrences are pretty common place in the 'States, and well barely earn a mention on local news.

IRTOP:

Not sure what degree of irony or sarcasm you're trying to lace into your topic title, but it's real difficult to compare knives being used as weapons, with guns.

See, it is actually already illegal to carry a knife in public; and the sale of obviously "combat" orientated knives are already banned.

But unlike guns, knives do serve other purposes, particularly in the kitchen, so banning them completely isn't really an option.

I actually agree with you that the problem with gun violence, in the U.S. and here in the U.K., is not the gun itself, but the individuals that use them.

I think it is a sign of a sophisticated and civilised Society, when people can co-exist peacefully, even though guns used for sport are present. I'm thinking of societies like Finland, Canada and Switzerland; all countries with high rates of gun ownership, yet low firearms homicide rates.

I think that the gun and knife violence that we are seeing amongst British youths, although greatly sensationalised by the Press, is a sign that there is something seriously wrong with our Society. I actually live in North London, which is pretty much the epicentre of youth-knife culture in the UK, with some poor bastard seeming to get stuck ever other day at the moment.

And I've got a 10 year old son who is growing up in this environment.

I don't think the primary issue is the availability of knives, just as I don't think the problems in U.S. society are necessarily to do with the availability of guns.

No, I think the primary issue is the level of anger in our societies, and the message that we send out to our children - and to others with a child-like mentality - that violence really is the way to resolve our disputes.

Children are just mirrors to us; they copy and reflect the behaviour they see around them. Right now, in the U.K. and U.S., they are seeing and hearing a lot about violence. More pertinently, they are seeing and hearing a lot about how British and American governments use violence to settle disputes.

On top of that, the paramilitarisation of our police forces and security services is bringing a lot more of that air of violence into our daily lives; and the sense of Fear and paranoia that accompanies that is kept at fever pitch by our governments.

All of which makes for a pretty unpleasant and suspicious atmosphere. The tension and fear in public life at the moment spills over on the merest pretence or perceived slight, and our anger and disillusionment is vehemently expressed.

Our kids pick up on all this, and they look at the way we go about settling disputes, on both a personal and a political level, and they see us using violence, and hear us saying that violence is justified.

And the lesson they learn is not, "All violence is wrong"; but, "Only [b]*UNJUSTIFIED*[/b] violence is wrong".

So long as they can justify their violence within themselves, and within their peer group, they have no qualms about using often lethal violence. And then where exactly do we, as a Society, get off telling these kids that their violence is wrong, while ours is Right?

We barely believe that bullshit; and our kids certainly aren't buying it.

So clearly, we have a big problem with the levels of anger in our societies, and with our simultaneous and hypocritical justifications and condemnations of violence: we live in an angry society, with often violent neighbours (we may ourselves [b]*BE*[/b] that angry and violent neighbour...).

There's no easy cure for this sickness, certainly nothing that can be affected overnight. But what we can do is take steps to try to control and limit just how lethally angry and violent our children can behave towards each other.

And that means trying to keep them away from those tools with which they cause each other - and us - so much harm.

Peace