In Reply To #33

People here mock me, call me names, and tell me that I should die, yet I only have gone so far as to make blatantly stupid threats that are too ridiculous to take seriously. Yet, as I venture forth down the path I have taken, I have found myself to be ill-tempered as of late. This is due to the spamming of my Threads.

Every Thread and post that I make on these lovely Forums comes from my hear, brain, and soul. I put a lot of time and effort into my posts, trying to voice my opinion in ways that will grab attention, yet inform those who seek knowledge and wisdom from me. I am not the Devil, nor am I an angel. I am just merely human.

So I ask of you today, fellow PBF'ers, that you give me a chance, a chance that will only prove worthwhile. You need to just accept me for who I am, and try not to morph me into something hideous and ugly. I am here for the sole purpose to teach, whilst also entertaining. All you need to do to see such is open up your heart and brain, and widen the narrow-mindedness of yourself. If you can do this, you will surely come to appreciate me as so many people have come to already.

A little humility might go a long way to your gaining acceptance and being able to integrate with this community Kuro. Before you can teach anyone anything, you need to find out whether they want to learn anything from you.

I hadn't noticed the Christian Evangelist in you until this post, and I'm really not sure that is the right tack for you to change to at this stage... If others in this forum had trouble accepting you in your natural guise, I don't think utilising the tools of martyrdom and self-righteousness is going to improve the situation.

You know, I'm a very wise man, so let me see if I can teach YOU something here:

The best way to learn is to teach; and the best way to teach, is to learn.

That paradoxical statement is at the heart of any effective Teacher-Student relationship Kuro, because teaching is a CO-ACTIVE relationship that relies on equality to be effective.

You state unequivocally that your desire through your participation in this community is to teach: it is your "sole purpose".

But how can you teach this community anything, when YOU haven't learned how this community functions? When you haven't learned what kind of community this is? And when you (apparently) refuse to learn or accept this community's etiquette and modes of behaviour?

I'm not questioning your motives or intentions here Kuro: each to their own. But just imagine you were a 19th-Century Christian Missionary, travelling up the Congo river to teach the natives all about Jesus.

Now if you just turn up in the first tribal village you come across, and start reading scripture at the natives, IN ENGLISH... How long do you think it will be before you end up in the pot?

How are the natives going to understand ANYTHING you are talking about?

Maybe you should teach them English first? But HOW are you going to teach them to speak English? There's only one way possible. And that is to learn to speak their language FIRST.

If you don't first learn their language, if you don't first learn and respect their customs and cultural traditions, then there is every change you're going to offend someone, and end up back in the pot.

Of course, the early Christian/colonial missionaries often took the position that they were somehow superior to the natives whose land they were on. They took the view that it was for the natives to raise their level, not for the missionary to first lower their self. What if by "lowering" their self, the missionary became so enamoured of the native culture that they "went native"?

But then, maybe that's why so many of the early missionaries ended up in the pot...

Kuro: you can't expect (or insist) that people in this community pay you respect, without at least your first demonstrating that same respect for them. You can't expect people in this community to "learn" from you, unless you first demonstrate that you are willing to learn from them.

It isn't that the amount of threads you create or posts you author is "wrong"; it is just that you are the only person doing it around here. You take this as a sign of uniqueness or "special-ness", but it really isn't, anyone of us could do likewise. What you've been getting back recently in your threads, isn't exactly the same "spam" that you produce, not in style or substance anyway. But what YOU feel when you receive the spam you have in your recent threads, is EXACTLY what others feel when you create multiple threads and posts that seem equally pointless to others.

Believe it or not: "they" (the other members of this community who have been spamming you) are trying to teach YOU something.

And I would suggest that unless you want to end up in the metaphorical ostracised "pot", you might want to pay attention. Even us natives around here who can and do comfortably tolerate you - including the tribal chiefs - must start to recognise that you are antagonising the other, more restless natives, even as you do so inadvertently.

There's no need for you to get defensive or ill-tempered, no-one is really taking sides here. But if you REALLY want to teach others around here, I would strongly suggest you first try to LEARN how to teach these fine young cannibals.

And that means learning how to fit in; learning how to be accepted as someone that others are willing to listen to.

Otherwise, you will defeat your own, soul purpose.

And end up fitting in the cooking-pot. :)

Peace