The U.S. is a very naive country sometimes, because they think that people fall for the trick of "we are here to help you", when really the U.S. supports many countries not to help them, but to promote their own interests (i.e. Panama, Vietnam, Iranian Rev.,etc., etc.).

It has ever been thus.

Before the U.S. really refined it, the British and Germans were doing it; before them the French and the Spanish. It seems to be a staple of civilisation that its leaders mask their most abhorrent acts behind veils of legitimacy.

The problem for the United States is that it is just too difficult to do it successfully these days.

Global Society is now more connected; strong elements of that Society are better educated than ever before, and better able to understand the complexities of a situation.

For example, here I am communicating with someone who has a better understanding of the situation in Lebanon than I'll ever have. But then, I don't need to have a better understanding than you. So long as I stay connected with you, you can keep me informed. :)

So, in this day and age, it is getting mighty difficult for the United States' government to keep its own population confused or convinced, let alone anyone else.

Still, I HATE Hezbollah, not because of the Public initiatives they take in Lebanon, but because they do not serve the interests of Lebanon, but of others.

Violent people serve the interests of all other violent people.

Sanoira, IMO, is a great man, and I hope his government is strengthened. Lebanon's Christians and Muslims need to unite, and so far most Sunnis and Christians seem to serve Lebanon's interests and many Shiites also.

Without wishing to sound glib, all Lebanon's People must unite.

Or, they must figure out how to divide the land of Lebanon equally amongst themselves.

The former is not only a more noble goal, it is the only practical one.

From an outsider's point of view, Lebanon has two chief problems.

The first, and arguably lesser of the two problems, is that Lebanon is geo-politically too weak to prevent its use as a pawn by grander geo-political players; like Syria, Israel, Iran, of course the United States, but Russia and France too.

The second major problem - and it is arguably a product of the first - is that Lebanon's Confessional system of Government does nothing to promote common cause and identity amongst the various factions in Lebanese Society.

Far from ensuring that every Lebanese faction gets a say in matters, the French designed the system to ensure that only a very few Lebanese would actually need to be dealt with. It is much easier to deal with autocratic strongmen, than to entire nations.

The idea of "Strongman" leaders - in Lebanon and anywhere else - is a part of the problem, but it is - and always has been - presented as the solution.

Lebanon should not be looking to the one man or figure who can unite all Lebanese Society; Lebanese People should be looking at one another to see how they can manage to co-exist with their differences.

These differences are, ultimately - and to an outsider's point of view - only minor differences in the interpretation of religious scripture. Sunni & Shia are separated by liturgical differences so slight that they could be typing errors.  And the Druze and Maronites share a common Greek ancestry in their scripture, if not their cultural heritage.

Finding someone from amongst these groups, to represent all of them is an impossible task. Too much blood has been split, and too much hatred ingrained for sufficient majorities of one group to trust a sufficient majority of another.

Agreements can be reached in the corridors of Middle Eastern Power, by the strongmen and satraps; but to deliver those agreements to the Middle Eastern streets is a task that so far remains unaccomplished.

There is simply too much seething resentment; and that resentment is stoked endlessly by all the inter-related events in the Middle East. Lebanon, of course, has always faced a far greater "Palestinian Problem" than Israel; just as Syria and Jordan are now beginning to face up to their "Iraqi Problem".

I do personally think that Lebanon is probably the key to Peace in the Middle East.

If the Lebanese People - no outside help needed or invited - can figure out a way to live with their differences Peacefully; then I believe it would serve as an effective model and example for Peace in the Greater Middle East.

Fact of the matter is that the idea of "National Identity" is becoming a bit stale. Like so many people, the Lebanese People have been taught to support and identify with the idea of a Nation, which ultimately, was born at and for the convenience of the "Great Powers", in the early 20th Century.

The difficulties begin when you try to convince people of a collective identity that is supposed to supersede whatever collective identity they have been brought up with. Tell people that being "Lebanese" is a higher priority than being a Sunni Muslim, and people start to take issue.

I can see a Middle East without National borders.

Ringed by Turkey, Iran, Pakistan and Egypt, I could the whole region getting on pretty well without any notion of internecine boundaries.

It is what the Europeans have done. It is what the South Americans are doing. It is what Africa must do; and what the Far East and South-East Asia will do.

It is what the British did for India.

But ask yourself which of the existing World Superpowers - let's say the G8 - would allow such a power block to emerge over the Heart of the World's Energy Resources?

Therefore, the Middle East must submit to constant interference.

And Lebanon is a microcosm of the Middle East.

Since nothing but "Sunny Skies" are allowed to shine, diplomatically speaking, over Israel; the Eye of the Storm has been shifted, and is repeatedly shifted over to Lebanon.

Now whilst it might be impossible to eliminate outside interference in the Middle East; I think that it is becoming more possible to achieve within Lebanon.

I think the Idea that has to keep being shouted by Lebanese People, in Lebanon and All Over the World, is: Leave Us Alone. And that has to mean: EVERYONE leaves Lebanon Alone.

The problem with strongmen like Siniora and Hariri was that they had to and have to compromise their integrity as a citizen of Lebanon, in order to achieve anything of progress. In other words, they all are or become dependent on foreign backers.

Now there is nothing wrong with "foreign" backing per se, particularly as what may be nationally foreign, may not be religiously or culturally foreign.

But foreign backing for a Nationalist cause is as illogical as it is bound to fail.

It is bad enough in the West that our elected representatives find it more lucrative to represent the wishes of corporations over their fellow-citizens. In Lebanon, your elected representatives frequently represent the wishes of outside national and extra-national interests.

I think it will take too long, and cost too much blood, to convince every Lebanese person to see every other Lebanese person as a fellow. But it do think it is still possible for people living in Lebanon to see other people living in Lebanon, as human beings.

Peace