In Reply To #3

In Reply To #1

Man, we are due to have a Federal election sometime before 1998. It hasn't even been announced yet, but we have been bombarded with negative shit for the entire year (especially from the Howard government, which is in deep trouble in the polls).

It drives me nuts.

{whispers: 1998 was like, nearly 10 years ago or something Sid... You're already nuts! ;-))

"Letter from Canberra", published in this fortnight's Private Eye:

The "Man of Steel", as George W Bush calls our prime minister John Howard, suffered a bad case of the jitters recently. But at least he's thrown off his other nickname: that of the Gollum, the creepy creature who refused to give up the Ring of Power.

Howard has agreed that "well into" his next term (if he wins the election due before the end of the year), he will retire. At 68 he's a lot older than your Tony Blair was when he finally decided it was time to go, but Howard wants to equal the record of his hero, Robert Menzies, who won five elections.

Soon after the opposition Labor Party chose Kevin Rudd to replace the three-time loser Kim Beazley late last year, Howard's approval ratings began to dive. Despite our booming economy - growing at 4.3 percent on the back of sales of coal, gas and iron ore to China, and unemployment down to the same figure - bang in the middle of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation jamboree, Howard fell 18 points behind Labor and psephologists predicted a bloodbath for the Liberal and National coalition. In addition, surveys said the PM was "mean and tricky" and "out of touch".

For years Howard has claimed the mantle of international statesman, but like Blair he did little more than slavishly track an US president who was going nowhere. Howard helped Bush undermine the U.N., the W.T.O., the Kyoto protocols and the nuclear non-proliferation treaty (by flogging uranium to India which hasn't signed the NNPT) and, of course, he sent a small contingent of troops to the coalition of the willing which invaded Iraq. He also failed to realise a close alignment to Dubya would become a negative.

Like Blair with Gordon Brown, Howard's support for his own treasurer and number two, Peter Costello, has been ambivalent. A recent biography claimed that in the 11 years they'd been together on the frontbench, Costello had never been invited to dine with Howard and his family. Like Brown, Costello has found ways to get his own back. He recently pointed out that Australia had enjoyed continuous economic growth since 1991 - when Labor was still in power - and Howard was incensed. The heart of his re-election message is: Labor's poor economic record will ruin us all.

Costello also criticised his prime minister's favourite tactic of buying votes. All year Howard has been wandering our wide brown land with swags of cash, like gifts for non-viable hospitals, surplus-to-requirements woodchip mills and remote aquatic centres, all in seats where his MPs have less than a 5 percent majority.

To help us understand the value of its generosity (with our money), the government has also spent $2bn (£800m) on advertising since 1996. Thinly disguised as "public service information", it boosts unpopular industrial relations reform; reminds us to watch out for terrorists; and is sprinkled with Singapore-style nanny-state nostrums like: "Don't put your money in fruit machines because you might lose."

Not that Costello is a fiscal cleanskin. A "windfall" $20bn (£8.3bn) surplus in this year's budget has been promoted as "prudent"; but those of us struggling with high interest rates resent being told that we've never had it so good.

A day after the really bad poll, a majority of the cabinet suggested Howard should go. His response was that he knew what was best and would carry on. His justification for our continuing presence in Iraq has always been that Australians never "cut and run" so how could he?

Sure enough the most recent poll suggests the worst is over. He's still 10 points behind Labor (and could lose his own seat) but, until the next round of bad figures, his party has to believe he's their only chance of winning.