[quote=AudieMurphyIncarnate][color=red]For the UK peeps, what is the difference between labor and lib dem?  I figure it is better to ask than sort through a bunch of shit.[/color][/quote]

It's pretty much an entirely academic exercise these days to consider ideological differences or positions when it comes to political parties. And that's pretty much the case wherever you are in the World, including the U.S. and the U.K.

This is because political campaigning and electioneering these days is always targeted squarely at the "undecided", "moderate" and "centrist" voters.

As with people who traditionally always vote for the U.S. Republican or Democrat parties, at least two-thirds of British voters (that is, those British people who will always vote, *NOT* all British people eligible to vote) will *ALWAYS* vote the same way, regardless of how their chosen party presents or alters its manifesto.

And if someone who has voted Conservative at every election does decide that they don't like the way that the Conservatives have altered their policies, they will either abstain from voting altogether, or they will shift to the ideological Right and vote for an independent or single-issue candidate. What they will not do - *UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES* - is vote Labour, no matter how pissed off they are with the Conservatives.

I'm sure you recognise the dynamic Audie. No matter how pissed off you might get with the Republican Party, it is only likely that you would switch your vote to say a "Tea Party" candidate, or an independent. It is highly unlikely that you could ever bring yourself to vote Democrat, for reasons of personal principle.

And it works exactly the same in reverse. Someone in the UK who gets pissed off with the Labour Party after supporting it all their lives, will never vote Conservative. Rather, they are likely to shift to the Left and vote for something like the Socialist Workers Party.

So, since the mainstream parties don't have to worry about losing their traditional core voters to the "Other Side", they can afford to present policies that are "moderate" and "centrist", in order to appeal to the floating/undecided voter in the middle ground.

And since both sides in a Two-Party dominated political system are doing this, it pretty much neutralises any actual ideological differences between the two parties.

Of course, one of the dangers of following this strategy is that you run the risk of alienating such a substantial number of your core "reliable" voters, that before you know it, your party has fractured into its component parts. This is something that can be seen happening with the "Tea Party" movement and the Republican Party in the U.S. at the moment. Those GOP supporters who believe in a purer and traditional form of social Conservatism are presenting themselves as a contrast to the moderate Republicans who favour more centrist policies.

However, what usually happens with this kind of situation is that by the time of the next significant election, the leaders of the "Official" party will warn the breakaway movement that unless they re-unify, they will split the vote in opposition to their "Common Enemy" (i.e. the Democrats), and that "Common Enemy" will triumph.

So, for example, whilst the "Tea Party" movement dislikes "moderate", "centrist" and "populist" Republican policies (the only kind of policies that can win an election, incidentally), the movement thoroughly hates the Democrat Party. So by the time of this year's Mid-Terms, far from the "Tea Party" becoming a potentially new party, breaking away from the GOP, it will instead meekly reduce its role to just that of a "representative faction" *WITHIN* the Republican Party.

Now Audie, I write all this to try and frame where the Liberal Democrats sit in the British political spectrum: to finally answer your question!

From the 18th Century through to the beginning of the 20th Century, the two dominant political parties in Great Britain were the Tories (Conservatives) and Whigs (Liberals). Truth be told, there wasn't an awful lot of ideological differences between the two of them, though in contrast to the common definitions of the terms, it was the Conservatives who supported tight government controls on more or less everything, and the Liberals who favoured a more relaxed