[quote=Wunderschlung][color=purple]Its like the two major parties are desperate, and the Libs are trying to capitalise on the situation they find themselves in.[/color][/quote]

Hoisted on their own petard, I would say.

The theory behind the British Parliamentary Democracy System is that it is supposed to be a representative democratic establishment. The idea is that a group of citizens within a geographically defined constituency, elect one of their number to represent the interests of that constituency in a National Assembly (Parliament).

In practice, what actually happens is that the three main national parties - Conservative, Labour and Liberal Democrats - field candidates in every constituency, and where those candidates get elected, use the Party Whip system to ensure that those Members of Parliament put the interests, ambitions and agenda of the National Party ahead of those citizens in their local constituency.

In other words, Members of Parliament represent their National Party first, and their local constituents second.

Now since this is undoubtedly the case, why continue the masquerade of pretending that a General Election has any local relevancy whatsoever? It makes far more sense to have voting carried out on a national basis for a National Assembly. Citizens vote for the *PARTY* of their choice, rather than a "local" candidate, and the National Party then fills whatever number of seats it wins from a list of its own candidates.

Essentially, this is the system that operates in any case in the U.K. Very few voters select their local M.P. based on the candidate's individual merits (many voters don't even know the names of their preferred Party's local candidate, until they see it on their ballot form); most decide whether they are going to vote Labour, Conservative or Liberal (or other) based on the National Party campaigns, and on the performance of the Party Leader and senior Party members in the National media.

With the Party Whip system in place, and with National Parties able to "parachute" their preferred candidates into constituencies often against the wishes of the local Party membership, Parliamentary Elections in the U.K. are to all intents and purposes already National Elections.

So why not scrap the whole "Local MP"/"Constituency"/"First-Past-the-Post" bollocks that has produced the current, wholly unedifying result?

Because the two Parties that have formed every UK National Government since the end of World War One are heavily favoured by the current system, and consequently they heavily favour keeping the current system. Their argument has always been that the current system "delivers strong and clear government"; but last week's result has clearly nullified that position.

It is also argued that "Coalition Government" is weak government. But actually, the strongest Economic and Political European Power is Germany, and Germany (and formerly West Germany) has been governed by coalitions since 1949.

It is purely self-interest that has enforced the Conservative and Labour Parties' opposition to electoral reform, and that held true all the way up to last Thursday's General Election result. Now that both parties are clamouring for power, and their favoured system has produced precisely the result they both said it didn't, they are now positioning themselves as though they supported electoral reform all along.

If it were up to the Leader of the Liberal Democrats, Nick Clegg, to choose which Party to enter into some form of alliance with, he would have chosen the Conservatives already.

Fortunately, it isn't up to him. Three-quarters of the Liberal Democrat's Party Membership must agree any policy changes that would lead to that kind of a deal. And pretty much three-quarters of the Liberal Democrat's Party Membership are insisting that Electoral Reform and true Proportional Representation is the *ONLY* demand they want met.

And since the Labour Party are offering it already, and the Conservative Party's membership is as opposed to any kind of Electoral Reform as the Lib Dem's are for it, a Labour-Liberal Alliance is looking the most likely. And that should then deliver the necessary reform to the UK's Electoral System.

With any luck...

[face_peace]