[quote=Foota21178388][color=blue][quote][i]Gordon Brown began his "resignation" statement by observing that "we have a parliamentary system, not a presidential system."

Indeed. And anybody who thought the British and American systems were broadly similar - two parties each with a principal candidate to serve as the country's leader - should have been disabused of that by the day's events.

Britain does not elect prime ministers. (Only the voters of Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath elect Gordon Brown.) But it generally elects parties under known leaders offering themselves, in effect, as prime minister.

[b]Before last week's vote, the United Kingdom had a head of government who had never submitted himself to the electorate in that capacity, nor had he even been elected as leader by his party. Rather, Gordon Brown became prime minister because of a long-ago private deal with Tony Blair that Brown chose to invoke when Blair got into his post-Iraq difficulties. [/b]

...

[b]Meanwhile, the party that won the most seats throughout the UK, and a clear majority in England, will be entirely excluded. And possibly in perpetuity [/b] - since the deal the LibDems are angling for from Labour is one that would change Britain's electoral system to something "fairer" (i.e., more beneficial to them). The various Scots, Ulster, and Welsh parties may yet have some "fairness" in the game, too.

So much for those Yank-style televised leaders' debates only a couple weeks back. [b]Instead, Britain will end up with a leader who didn't participate in the leaders' debates, presiding over a coalition that wasn't on the ballot, implementing a platform no party ran on, yet committed to transformative electoral reform for which there is no mandate.[/b]

If all the above doesn't sound terribly democratic, well, at least, Mr. and Mrs. Bloggs of Little Stitch-Up-On-Thames can still elect their Member of Parliament and know who they're going to get. As it happens, that's what the LibDems want to change - to some Continental-style "proportional" system. The way things are going, giving every voter a blindfold and a pin would make as much sense.[/i][/quote][/color]

[color=red]Holyman - what do you make of this analysis?[/color][/quote]

That it more or less correctly nails the absurdity of the anachronistic British Political and Electoral System.

I mean, forget the eventual outcome (the Conservative-Liberal Democrat Coalition) of the recent political machinations, things could quite easily have turned out as described above.

Thing is, more or less everyone in the UK recognises the undoubted shortcomings of the present system - and if they didn't before last week, they certainly do now. But the only two groups of people who are in any position to reform and update the British Political/Electoral System, are the Conservative and Labour Parties. And they are the exact same two groups that would be guaranteed to lose out with any such reform, and so both are wholly opposed to change.

The main reason that the scenario outlined above didn't come to pass, was because senior figures in the Labour Party decided they would rather move into opposition and regroup, than agree to any reform of the Electoral System (demanded by the Liberal Democrats) that would inevitably see the Labour Party lose its current electoral advantages.

Equally, the Conservatives agreeing to a plebiscite on the "Alternative Vote" (AV) System doesn't mean a great deal either.

Firstly, whilst the Conservative-dominated Coalition Government must allow the referendum to be held, under the terms of their agreement with the Liberal Democrats, there is nothing to stop them campaigning *AGAINST* introduction of the AV System - and this they will certainly do, and with much greater funding than the Lib Dem's will be able to muster.

And secondly, the Alternative Vote System isn't a true Proportional Representation (PR) System. 80% of Parliamentary seats would be elected and won under the current First-Past-the-Post System, with the remaining 20% coming from "Top-Up" lists based on the Nationwide Popular Vote. Introduction of the AV System (if the referendum for it were successful), would give the Liberal Democrats slightly more parliamentary seats than they currently receive in General Elections, but would still fall short of reflecting the 25% of the National Popular Vote the Liberal Democrats usually receive.

So the Conservative Party has not made any great concession in agreeing to a referendum on AV, since in the unlikely event that the British Electorate can be persuaded to vote for it (and many British people in favour of PR, won't vote for AV because it isn't true PR), it won't represent any radical shift or change to the status quo.

So, what all that means is that as rightfully scornful as the author of your piece is about the British Electoral System and the machinations of the last few days that it has produced, and as correctly as he denigrates how undemocratic and unfair a potential Labour-Liberal Democrat Coalition would have been on the Conservative Party...

It is primarily the Conservative Party, and now once more, following a brief hiatus whilst the Labour Government tried to cling onto power, the Labour Party, who are dead set against reforming or changing the System.

So even if the Conservatives had been kept from power by a (very weak and highly impermanent) Labour-Liberal Democrat-Other "Rainbow" Coalition, it would have been very difficult to feel any sympathy for them.

The British Electoral System *IS* an absurd anachronism. Whilst it is a Parliamentary System rather than a (National) Presidential System; the major parties run and campaign in General Elections as though they are National, Presidential Elections.

So to my mind they should just have the courage of their convictions and move to a Presidential System.

[face_peace]