[quote=DarklordDogg][quote=Holyman][color=blue]It's a secular contemplation of the Afterlife[/color][/quote]

[color=green]Is that even possible? I mean, the afterlife is religious invention, something completely at odds with secularism.

It just seems odd to me that someone (the author) who describes themselves as secular would consider or contemplate such things, and in such depth.[/color][/quote]

That's an intelligent response Dogg...

And one that I'm not going to be able to give you a succinct response to...

So here's my un-succinct answer. :)

I think that the question of an After-Life is actually far more philosophical and scientific than it is religious.

In fact, I feel that religion, as a concept within Human Society, has co-opted contemplation and discussion of the After-Life... And that not to Humanity's benefit.

Let's first define what we're talking about here:

Does (or will) our self-conscious awareness survive the death of the physical body?

That's it, that's the actual question. Everything else is based on the answer being either an emphatic yes, or an emphatic no.

Discussion or belief regarding what actually [i]happens[/i] in the After-Life, is entirely pointless, unless you are discussing what happens, with some else who [i]also[/i] believes that our conscious self-awareness survives [i]post mortem[/i].

And that's fine. There are a lot (a [b]LOT![/b]) of people who do believe in Life After Death, and they have all sorts of interesting discussions about what may or may not happen to your consciousness, after your body dies.

But they are all discussions based on that single belief in Life After Death.

Now equally, there are a lot of human beings who believe equally emphatically, that our conscious awareness of our self, ceases as soon as our bodies complete the transition from living personality, to cooling meat.

And obviously, they do *NOT* have any discussions about what happens to our consciousness after death.

They may instead, end up having lots of discussions about why belief in Life After Death has had, and continues to have, such negative consequences for Human Society.

Oh, some people who don't believe in Life After Death, allow that a belief in an After-Life has had [i]some[/i] positive consequences for Human Society; but very few of them conclude that, on balance, the influence of that belief has been (and continues to be) an overall positive.

And not all people who do believe in Life After Death, believe that those who don't are going to burn in Hell.

Point being... That it's all based on an original belief - an original conceit, or "sin" if you like - that our conscious identities definitely do, or definitely don't survive physical death.

Either way though, it's not a very good foundation for working hypotheses.

As far as Science is concerned, it could very well be backing into the concept that Science almost defines itself as being in opposition to: that concept being the Metaphysical, opposed to the Physical.

What Science is understanding is that it is very difficult to define exactly what the Physical is.

For instance, what Newton defined as the "Physical" 400 years ago, has come under almost constant strain in subsequent years. With growing understanding of the Quantum Level, increasing levels of sophistication in measurement and experiment, and continued human exploration at the sub-atomic level.

Without a complete and demonstrably accurate definition of "The Physical", it is difficult to be secure in any way about the exact nature of the physical plane.

For example, are we all cogs in a deterministic machine, or are we random fluctuations in a chaotic mass? Is there any "Smallest Particle of Matter", or are we all, in fact, pure Energy? What, precisely, is the nature of the relationship between Space and Time?

None of which ponderings, by the way, necessarily lead in the direction of pondering the question of Life After Death... But that is because Science is not concerned with pondering imponderables.

And the issue of Life After Death is certainly imponderable.

Apart from anything else, if there is this enduring, collective, rosy After Life that everyone is enjoying (or hating) so much, why the fuck won't they communicate with us and tell us about it? You know, in a clear, unambiguous and helpful way?

So Science gets on with research and investigations where it can actually measure progress on.

But between the Scientists and the Religionists, there's still a whole swathe of Humanity that describes itself neither as Scientific or Religious.

Philosophically speaking, contemplation of an After Life is as instructive and helpful a contemplation as any other concerning the Human Condition.

Philosophy tends towards asking "What If..?" questions, and there's no bigger than "What if our conscious self-awareness survives our physical death?" And asking that question allows us to consider how our Society might be different if it was accepted fact that an After Life was guaranteed.

Oh, and let's be clear, we'd be considering just that one fact. As it goes, something like 90% of the human beings believe in an After Life. And many great nations, such as the United States for example, consider their relationship with the immutable supernatural to be a God-given certainty.

So let's just leave it at knowledge that consciousness endures physical death, before we get onto what consciousness may or may not [i]have[/i] to endure after death - that's where we usually run into problems.

It's really where Religionists hijack the whole philosophical contemplation thing. They take the discussion [i]way[/i] beyond just the simple question of Life After Death, and get terrifically involved in how positive or negative that experience will be ("because the answer is obviously yes!" (apparently)). And I hate to say it, but generally speaking, to outsiders at least, they make it sound all rather horrible.

Oh, not just the lakes of fire and brimstone and all that: we all know that's avoidable, if we just obey. No, it's the obedience bit that sounds most Hellish. And that's kind of what Religionists don't get. That the non-Religious actually find the prospect of Hell [i]more[/i] appealing than a Life- and Death-Time of obedience to some capricious deity or other.

Sod that for a game of soldiers.

Ok, so what about the Romantics amongst us?

What about those of us who don't believe in any Bronze-Age Scripture, or Greco-Roman Pantheon, or an Arabian political creed presented as Divine Instruction... And those of us who didn't really pay that much attention in Science class? Those of us who do believe in Love, in Emotion, in the Power of Spirit? Those of us who are just plain superstitious? Those of us who feel some intangible quality about their lives, but who just can't put their fingers on it?

Those of us who can write something like the piece that Bunny posted, that began this thread?

The origin of the word "Religion", finds itself in the Latin term [i]religare[/i], meaning "to restrain". In other words: Rules.

Religion doesn't have to refer solely to the Supernatural.

There are many people to whom sport is a religion. Many, many more to whom money is a religion. Others have a religious attitude to politics, some to sex, and others to whatever else they consider an important focus in their lives.

Many people are religiously irreligious.

Religiosity is really about defining a rigid set of parameters for existence, and never once stepping outside of those parameters (or restraints). And the enforcement of those restraints (whatever they are), is Fear of Failure.

Fear of being poor; fear of being disloyal to one's team; fear of being slowly boiled by a displeased deity.

On the flip-side, we are quite entitled to contemplate ourselves as part of something bigger and grander, without needing to uh, narrow the definition of that something bigger and grander, down to something we can conceptualise and relate to.

When we read a piece like the one at the top of this thread, we aren't required to tell ourselves: "Oh yes, that sounds entirely plausible. Right then. I'm now a firm believer in Life After Death, because that sounds a whole lot better than all that Judaeo-Christian-Islamic nonsense."

No, we can just read and consider how we might live our lives differently, [i]if[/i] it were True.

And from there, we can go on to consider how we might live our lives differently, even if it [b]*ISN'T*[/b] True.

Would it hinder us, individually and/or collectively? Would it require us to join a Religion or Cult? Would it, in fact, require us to live our lives according to a different set of rules other than the ones we have already devised for ourselves?

Or is it something that we can just keep in the back of our minds until the next time we come to review our current personal rules, and consider making any changes?

We're still Earthbound. We're still Human. We're not knocking on other people's doors or handing out leaflets. We're just going about our daily lives, considering an alternative possibility to the ones presented to us by Religion (Heaven and Hell) or Science (Oblivion).

That's not necessarily a purely rational consideration, and it certainly isn't much of a religious consideration. But I do think that it is an obviously secular one.

[face_peace]