[quote=Superslacks][color=green]One of you should start a thread on this. I occasionally start to begin one, but I end up reading what I'm about to post and decide it sounds like pretentious twaddle!

Still, worthy of discussion whoever kicks it off.[/color][/quote]

No sooner said than done my old China. :)

And for those who haven't ventured into the manure-infested "Prove Obama is a 'natural born U.S. citizen' etc." thread that germinated this thread, it began like this:

[quote=SidSeagoon][color=green]...while I get to do what I like best...bugger off in the boat to the west coast wilderness harbours with a goodly supply of weed, whiskey and solitude.[/color][/quote]

[quote=Holyman2012][color=blue]Sounds like Heaven to me. :)[/color][/quote]

[quote=SidSeagoon][color=green]Each to their own and my, isn't the real world incredible?[/color][/quote]

[quote=Holyman2012][color=blue]Oh yes.

It certainly is when you take the time to look at it.

And I don't mean by that, that people should/ought/must get out more, or do more stuff away from computers/outdoors etc. I mean that if we apply the same amount of time and energy examining and appreciating our own lives, as some of us do obsessing about the lives of others, there's a good chance we'll realise that Our World isn't quite the shithole many of us seem to believe it is.

I'm trying to avoid sounding sanctimonious here. If spending one's time plugged into a computer playing games or socialising is one's bag (and goodness knows I've spent enough time doing it), then that's just fine. We can and should appreciate that we are doing something we enjoy, that brings us pleasure and fulfilment. It's not about being a Social Fascist, saying "This is a good and decent way to spend one's Life", and "This or that is a bad and terrible way to waste one's Life". That's kind of my point. Whatever floats our own personal boat is whatever it is, and we should appreciate and celebrate that. Spending our time making judgements about other peoples' lifestyles and lifestyle choices is just a way of rehearsing our own anxieties about the way we choose to spend our own Time.

In reference to another thread I noticed: I don't personally think that the year 2012 will bring any great cataclysm or Society-changing event; but I do think that there is a small chance that by the time that year rolls around, the conditions might be met for the Awakening of a Global Human Consciousness - at least if enough people want to happen anyway.

Nothing supernatural, nothing religious, nothing outside of the scope of rational science: just an understanding shared by enough Human Beings around the World that if we want this Planet and the Life it supports to be a place fit for our Children, then with our combined energies we can make it so.

I don't know exactly how that might happen, or what it might look like; but I'm pretty sure that it won't be anything like the Celebrity-Reality-Show that tries to pass itself off as Social and Political Governance today.[/color][/quote]

[quote=SidSeagoon][color=green]Oh my, life on Earth and how it is evolving and changing....especially "outside" realities versus the burgeoning realm that is the interaction between a chimp with a keyboard and his/her interaction with other chimps in the new world of the internet "mind".

Big topic, me old china.

It's truly fascinating to be of an age (like creaky me)  that thought computers were fancy adding machines that could [i]just[/i] land a man on the moon, to go on to the freaky range of game worlds, internet bullying, instant news and ultimately, boredom, that it has all become.

A cold misty morning over water, wakened by plovers...with a coffee in hand over an expanse of empty harbour. Shivering with cold and the feeling of being [i]alive[/i] and totally apart from other humans in my boat... My world.

Also to duck down and log on  to check the weather...also my world now..if I had the gear, which I choose not to. FFS I still use a sextant and my chronometer (or coastal nav and charts to be honest) not GPS. I even hate mobile phones (though maybe not radios..MAYDAY!!).

Yeah. I think we are on the verge though of realising that we either swim together or all sink. Trouble is, there are far too many of us and far too ill educated, for the most part. I can't really see us getting through the bad times ahead without the usual mega-death scenario. After all the 20th C was not too bad resource sharing wise and look at the mayhem and murder then. What hope do we have with 10 billion?

Only the internet and discussion and shared knowledge and wisdom.

Or not...

Tell me that I'm wrong...[/color][/quote]

[b]And it continues like this..:[/b]

Oh, I can't tell you that you are wrong Sid...

...But I can tell you that you might be. :)

Let's talk about Free Will for a moment.

I'll start by quoting University of Texas: Austin philosophy professor David Sosa. It's a lengthy enough quote, but hell, we are on a big subject here..:

[quote][color=purple] In a way, in our contemporary world view, it's easy to think that science has come to take the place of God. But some philosophical problems remain as troubling as ever. Take the problem of free will. This problem has been around for a long time, since before Aristotle in 350 B.C. St. Augustine, St. Thomas Aquinas, these guys all worried about how we can be free if God already knows in advance everything you're gonna do. Nowadays we know that the world operates according to some fundamental physical laws, and these laws govern the behavior of every object in the world. Now, these laws, because they're so trustworthy, they enable incredible technological achievements. But look at yourself. We're just physical systems too, right? We're just complex arrangements of carbon molecules. We're mostly water, and our behavior isn't gonna be an exception to these basic physical laws. So it starts to look like whether its God setting things up in advance and knowing everything you're gonna do or whether it's these basic physical laws governing everything, there's not a lot of room left for freedom.

So now you might be tempted to just ignore the question, ignore the mystery of free will. Say "Oh, well, it's just an historical anecdote. It's sophomoric. It's a question with no answer. Just forget about it." But the question keeps staring you right in the face. You think about individuality for example, who you are. Who you are is mostly a matter of the free choices that you make. Or take responsibility. You can only be held responsible, you can only be found guilty, or you can only be admired or respected for things you did of your own free will. So the question keeps coming back, and we don't really have a solution to it. It starts to look like all our decisions are really just a charade.

Think about how it happens. There's some electrical activity in your brain. Your neurons fire. They send a signal down into your nervous system. It passes along down into your muscle fibers. They twitch. You might, say, reach out your arm. It looks like it's a free action on your part, but every one of those - every part of that process is actually governed by physical law, chemical laws, electrical laws, and so on.

So now it just looks like the Big Bang set up the initial conditions, and the whole rest of human history, and even before, is really just the playing out of subatomic particles according to these basic fundamental physical laws. We think we're special. We think we have some kind of special dignity, but that now comes under threat. I mean, that's really challenged by this picture.

So you might be saying, "Well, wait a minute. What about quantum mechanics? I know enough contemporary physical theory to know it's not really like that. It's really a probabilistic theory. There's room. It's loose. It's not deterministic." And that's going to enable us to understand free will. But if you look at the details, it's not really going to help because what happens is you have some very small quantum particles, and their behavior is apparently a bit random. They swerve. Their behavior is absurd in the sense that its unpredictable and we can't understand it based on anything that came before. It just does something out of the blue, according to a probabilistic framework. But is that going to help with freedom? I mean, should our freedom be just a matter of probabilities, just some random swerving in a chaotic system? That starts to seem like it's worse. I'd rather be a gear in a big deterministic physical machine than just some random swerving.

So we can't just ignore the problem. We have to find room in our contemporary world view for persons with all that that entails; not just bodies, but persons. And that means trying to solve the problem of freedom, finding room for choice and responsibility, and trying to understand individuality. [/color][/quote]

Free Will is, as far as I can tell, Humanity's greatest asset, the Source of its Salvation; and yet, it seems to be something that too many human beings seem too ready to surrender or discard.

Religion, to me, is the biggest enemy of Free Will in Human Society. Religionists may console themselves that in "choosing" to follow a religion, they are exercising their Free Will, and in "choosing" to follow the tenets of their chosen religion, they also exercise their Free Will. But how much of religion is based upon the threat of punishment or damnation? How much of religion is built around trying to appease a capricious and spoilt Deity?

How can religionists claim to be exercising their Free Will, when they devoutly believe that the "wrong" choice will lead to punishment and eternal damnation at the Hands of their God?

Living one's Life in such a way that it will not anger an invisible and intangible deity is not an exercise in Free Will, it is living in a State of Fear.

Much the same can be said of what we think politically. If we have been raised to believe in the supremacy of our "own" Nation, or the supremacy of our "own" political position or ideology, then we will cling to "our" political identity out of a sense of fear of the alternative(s), not because we have exercised our Free Will in choosing our own political thoughts.

It isn't that there is anything inherently wrong with a "Right" or "Left" wing political ideology: all ideologies have their own merits, or they simply wouldn't survive. And they all have their shortcomings too: there is evidently no perfect political formula currently in existence, or it would have been implemented and there would be a lot less arguments in our World.

But it is important that we ask ourselves honestly whether or not we are genuinely making a conscious, Free Will choice, every time we identify with or express a particular political viewpoint. It seems to me to be apparent that more often than not, when we champion a particular political or nationalistic cause, we are in fact acting out of either fear, loyalty, resolve, pig-headed tenacity, or a mixture of all of the above.

And finally, and perhaps most importantly, we have to look at our social behaviours and beliefs, "our" personal moralities, and ask ourselves if what we believe to be true about the way we should (and do) conduct ourselves with others, is really a demonstration of the choices we have made using our own Free Will, or whether "Who We Are" is really just a product of social conditioning and education.

The subject of Free Will must be distinct from a discussion about the "Rights" and "Wrongs" of particular religions, politics and social mores. If we find ourselves justifying our choices based on what we [b]THINK[/b] is "Right" or "Wrong", then that's a pretty emphatic indication that we're not at all exercising our Free Will, but rather "Trying to Do the Right Thing" - whatever we have been taught [b]IS[/b] "The Right Thing".

Free Will means having complete Freedom of Choice to believe what we may, regardless of religious, political and social context. The exercise of Free Will is the Experience of making choices from within our own identities; not trying to conform with whatever church, nation or school of thought we believe gives us the best chance of survival.

Perhaps far too many of us are far too ill-educated Sid. But on the other hand, there are many of us who haven't been educated to think and believe what others would like us to believe.

I don't think that Humanity's Future will based upon what we have been educated or conditioned to think, but upon what each and every Human Being [b]*FEELS*[/b].

Absent the religious, nationalistic, political and social ideologies, and it is clear that what just about every Human Being on the Planet [b]*FEELS*[/b], is that they would like to live their lives in Peace, with the Opportunity to express and experience their selves in whatever manner they consider most appropriate.

I don't see that the problem is that not enough people are well educated enough; I think the problem is that there are too many people trying to "educate" far too many other people about the "Right" way to live their lives.

The Good News is that the "Educators" are in the minority. Alright, they might be a heavily-armed minority, but then they'd have to be, because "their" ideas about the "Right" way for us all to live our lives simply isn't persuasive enough to gain widespread acceptance, or endure, without the force of anger and violence.

And I believe that we are reaching the stage in Humanity's History where a sufficient number of People who believe that we should Live and Let Live are beginning to crowd out those who (have been taught to) believe that we should destroy those others who don't agree with our own beliefs.

Of course, that's just what I believe, and I must accept that I may be wrong. But I figure, so what if I am? The World goes to Hell in a hand-basket; and we'll just have to start the Whole Experience all over again in another corner of the Universe.

But if I'm right, then we're all going to figure out how to get along with each other, and we can all just get on with having our Breath taken away by this Wonderful Life, rather than by each other.

[face_peace]