Context

Fifty years ago, as skilled engineers, you would have counted the length of time you had been working with the same colleagues on the same team in decades. Nowadays, our measures are closer to years, if not months.

When the same members of the same team work alongside each other for decades, performing the same sort of tasks, they develop an almost unspoken ability to communicate with each other. They are so familiar with the way that each of them performs their functions, that they can reliably organise the performance of their own functions, around that dependability.

In our current World, it is increasingly rare that teams and colleagues will ever experience such lengthy associations.

*******

And there is no going back.

The Modern Day "Gig" Economy, the dynamic pace of Mergers and Acquisitions, corporate restructuring, amalgamations, automation, offshoring, out-sourcing...

Corporate Downsizing is no longer a reactive and temporary measure: it is a Way of Life.

*******

Unfortunately, the often lack of opportunity to really settle into a role or team can limit the effectiveness of the team.

In order to try and remedy this, particularly in more dynamic Enterprise-size organisations, various initiatives have been and continue to be developed.

As far as the developers of initiatives such as Scrum, Agile and Lean are concerned, they are developing tools that they then make available to others to use. Those tools may then be used, where appropriate, to improve the overall effectiveness of a team.

However, as any good engineer knows, different tasks require different kinds of tools. And since there is very evidently no Swiss-Army-Multi-Management-Tool that does *EVERYTHING*...

...The more tools we have at our disposal, the better able we are to work most effectively.

Ultimately, we are all looking to work at our most effective, because it is our most effective work that we all find most personally satisfying. And in a modern, dynamic and fluid workplace environment, our ability to effectively communicate with our colleagues, is key to unlocking our own effectiveness.

Effective communication means being able to express our own ideas and opinions, in a manner that others can most reliably receive.

If we decide that we really need a colleague to properly acknowledge and understand the idea or thought we want to share with them, then the responsibility to communicate effectively lies with us.

Equally, if a colleague really feels a need to share and idea or thought with us, then the responsibility lies with them to communicate adequately and effectively.

For colleagues who have worked with each other for years, or even decades, if they are lucky, no such Formal Theories or "Tools" are necessary. Those colleagues have developed their own means of communication that is measurably superior to any theory-driven "Tools".

However, for those of us who don't have the good fortune to still be working alongside the same people we were working with twenty years ago... Familiarity with shared frameworks from the modern corporate "Toolsets", allow us to more rapidly integrate and harmonise with dynamically-changing teams.

Hopefully that explanation might help you understand why you might be feeling a little bit initiative-fatigued at the moment!

The purpose of today's session is to introduce another conceptual "Tool". That "tool" has "Feedback" embossed on it, but please just try to think of that as a "Brand Name" for the concept.

The purpose of today's session is not to instruct you on how you must henceforth issue feedback to your colleagues. We are not even here so that you can develop your personal feedback skills.

We are here to introduce you to a tool, and demonstrate how you might use it in certain situations, if you felt it would be appropriate and effective to do so.

That is all.

Honest!