In Reply To #3

If you're declared a suspect in Portugal you have far more rights than someone who is just part of an investigation.

Could just be a legal play.

We should be careful not to overlay our Anglo-Saxon principles onto essentially Latin Jurisprudence.

In Portugal, France, Spain and Italy, the person that we would view as "The Judge", is actually your defence barrister.

Latin legal systems don't have a system for Public Prosecutions as such.

In Anglo-Saxon legal systems, an accusation of criminal wrongdoing is sufficient for the State to invest Time and Money in mounting first an investigation of the accusation, followed by a prosecution, if the results of that investigation reveal that a successful prosecution is likely.

The basic Anglo-Saxon principle of the presumption of innocence, until or unless guilt is proved, is difficult for the Police to apply fairly in Anglo-Saxon legal systems.

If the eventual result of a criminal investigation is a sufficient establishment of innocence on the part of the accused, then the Judiciary in an Anglo-Saxon legal system will never become involved in the matter (assuming no further crimes were uncovered or committed, during the course of the investigation). The accused is discharged as demonstrably innocent on the basis of current evidence, and allowed to go free.

If sufficient evidence IS revealed by the investigation to warrant prosecution, then the accusation goes to criminal trial, where the evidence gathered can be presented and tested in a Court of Law.

In an Anglo-Saxon Court, the presiding Judge sits in a position of neutrality, and hears evidence for and against the prosecution and defence of the accused; but he BEGINS hearing the case, with a presumption that the accused is innocent.

That's the Theory, anyway...

When the Police undertake a major investigation, it is like a sports team aiming to win a match or tournament, or a business undertaking a major project. If the Police are going to justify government and tax-payer expenditure, then they need to "Go for the Win!"

In other words, when the Police investigate an accusation, they are compelled by policy and procedure to move forward on the basis of PROVING THE ACCUSED'S GUILT; rather than establishing the Objective Truth of the accusation.

This in itself means that the Police are placed under a tremendous pressure to get "Results"; with a "Good Result" being defined as: an investigation that leads to a successful prosecution and conviction of the accused. ("Bad Results" are: few successful prosecutions AND no decrease in existing levels of crime.)

And this in turn means that the Judiciary ends up dealing with primarily "Open and Shut" cases: with the Plea Bargain Book being opened; and the Jail Cell Door shut for a statistically-acceptable period of Time.

When an Anglo-Saxon Judge meets a person accused of a crime: they expect the accused to defend against those accusations.

Critically, in requiring the Accused to defend their self against an accusation, the Anglo-Saxon Judge is accepting at face value, that the accusation has SOME merit.

Anyone, anywhere, could throw an accusation at me; why should I waste my Time, Energy and Resources defending myself against such accusations?

Why should the onus be upon me to defend myself against an accusation?

Let the ACCUSATION be proved first, BEFORE I have to go to all the bother of defending my Self.

Now, as far as I understand it, this is closer to how Justice works in Latin jurisprudence. I'm more familiar with the French legal system than the Portuguese, but I imagine that it is built on similar Roman/Napoleonic (Enlightenment) principles.

When the Police first speak to you about a crime you are accused of, in France, they are either simply notifying you of an on-going investigation; OR they are arresting you. And they are arresting you, because they have completed an investigation which HAS provided the accusations against you, with sufficient merit to take before..:

A Public Defender.

(In France, they are called Advocate-Generals.)

The person an Anglo-Saxon would recognise as a Judge, will hear the evidence presented by the Police and prosecution, and decide whether the accusations against you are true. If the Advocate General or Public Defender decides that the accusations ARE true, then follows conviction and punishment. If it is decided that the accusations are NOT true: then the accusations are dropped, until or unless new evidence comes to light to support them.

I might be a bit sketchy on the French details, and I'm only partly-confident that the Portuguese must use similar legal principles - but it wouldn't surprise me.

What is most egregious - though hardly shocking - about the Madeleine McCann story, is that the British Media has filled its Front Pages and headlines, with lurid, specious and sensational gossip, which can only hamper the investigation into Madeleine's disappearance.

I appreciate - as I'm sure the British newspaper editors do - that it is just a question of patiently waiting the outcome of the Portuguese investigation, and whatever prosecutions may follow, if any. And whilst waiting, the Media wants to keep the story alive.

But SURELY the Media could wait more quietly, with more dignity, more respect. Perhaps it could take the time to explain such nuanced differences between the British and Portuguese legal systems, as I have above.

What the British Media should NOT be doing, is treating Madeleine's disappearance with the hysterically sensationalist tone it has been.

It is the ultimate expression of the degradation and demise of the Media, that it can not even treat the disappearance and possible death of a beautiful 3-year old girl, with dignity, respect and sensitivity.

Peace