One of the things about "Bias" and "Balance", in regard to binary alternatives, or dualistic viewpoints, is that there is an automatic assumption that each of the two viewpoints or Parties, deserve or warrant equal and balanced representation.

This is an approach that has long hampered the BBC, which is required by its Charter to always reflect balanced reporting on issues and people which and whom, aren't necessarily all that balanced.

For example, the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict is clearly an imbalanced conflict, with the Palestinians suffering a disproportionately greater amount, at the hands of the militarily and economically dominant Israeli state. However, when reporting on the issue, the BBC is obliged to present a "Balanced" view, which suggests that the Israelis and Palestinians are somehow in balanced opposition with each other; when clearly they are not.

So it goes then, in the United States, that with only two major political parties, the demand (from the Right) is that the Mainstream Media should reflect opinion and reportage that is balanced between the Republican and Democratic parties.

This applies particularly to the various issues that are neatly divided between the GOP and DNC, e.g. abortion, gun-control, social security etc. And the same also with issues such as the Iraq War, where there is a difference in position between the two parties.

However, the practical application of such attempts to "balance" the news coverage, actually ends up distorting the true picture.

For example, with the abortion issue, polls regularly show that only around a third of Americans think that current U.S. abortion legislation needs changing; and less than a quarter take the view that abortion should be severely restricted in all but the most unpleasant situations (far, far fewer consider that abortions should be banned outright).

But because abortion is a binary issue "Pro-Choice v. Pro-Life", each supporting camp is supposed to get equal representation and coverage; giving rise to the uh, misconception (...:)) that Americans are evenly split on the issue.

Same goes with the War in Iraq. The neat, simplistic dividing line is between Pro- and Anti-War; and each camp is supposed to receive equal representation in the media. The Mainstream Media in the U.S., since 9/11, has been heavily pro-War; and it is rare to hear or see a representative from the Anti-War camp.

Yet this stands in stark contrast to the fact that around three-quarters of Americans have opposed the Iraq War, pretty much since it got bogged down in 2004.

So, when we look at the bias in the U.S. mainstream media, between representation and coverage for the Republican point of view, and the Democratic point of view, the real question to ask is not why the two parties don't get 50-50, equally balanced coverage...

But why the most unpopular Presidential Administration of the Modern Era, and the most unpopular and discredited mainstream political party in a generation, is getting [b]*AS MUCH*[/b] favourable coverage as it does.

And the answer to that question is clearly: Fox News.

Some may say that Journalists have a duty to report the Truth, regardless of what that Truth might be; and some may say that the Mainstream Media has an important social function, to provide balanced and unbiased coverage of important political events. Others may say that in a Capitalist Democracy, Mainstream Media outlets are bound to report events in a way that proves most profitable to them.

What is not in question though, is that there is only so long that a "News" outlet can "Report" "Information" that is [b]*SO*[/b] far from the actual Truth, before it becomes a laughing stock.

There simply is no way that the other networks could report "News" the way that Fox does, without their viewers turning off in droves.

From my perspective, I'd say the Mainstream Media in the U.S. takes it pretty easy on the Bush Administration; they certainly take a [b]*MUCH*[/b] softer line than any Media Outlet in the Rest of the World that is [b]*NOT*[/b] dependent on the U.S. Government for its operating license.

People who support the deeply unpopular antics of the Bush Administration, and who have pledged allegiance in perpetuity to the Republican Party can bleat all they like about the Mainstream Media being biased against them.

But sooner or later they're going to have to realise that getting other people to make themselves look and sound as stupid as they do, does not equal "Fair and Unbiased Reporting".

[face_peace]