[link=http://www.counterpunch.com/waj05282008.html]Link to very comprehensive and informative interview with Ron Paul.[/link]

...In which Ron Paul answers some very direct Liberal questions, with convincing and well-constructed Conservative points of view.

These can in part get a little long-winded, hence the length of the interview, but this is because the nature of the questions cover very complex social and political issues. Rather than offer bromides or canards, Paul takes his time to articulate a reasoned and logical response.

But stick with it, and for those of you who don't already, you will get the sense of a very different kind of politician to those currently vying for the U.S. Presidency.

We really need leaders to tackle the enormously complex problems of the World, and intelligent and objective individuals like Ron Paul represent a very different alternative, to the "American Idol"/"X-Factor" style personality cults that pass for elections in our Society.

It isn't a question of being Liberal or Conservative, Left or Right. It is a question of understanding and believing that those whom we choose to represent and lead us, are actually [b]*CAPABLE*[/b] of resolving our Society's problems.

It should [b]*NOT*[/b] be a question of selecting the personality we think best represents the personality and Life we desire to have ourselves.

I think governments and politicians should be elected on the basis of a "Business Plan".

When I invest in a private company, I don't just throw all of my money into the trust of the company's directors.

Before I give them a penny, I expect them to present me with a business case.

It doesn't have to be a flawless, perfect or fail-safe business case - very few effective business cases are. It just has to be a plan that will make things demonstrably better for me: that their business case is highly likely to earn me more money.

When I invest my vote in a political representative, I don't, like campaign contributors and lobbyists, expect my representative to back things immediately and individually better for me.

Making life immediately and individually better for me, is [b]*MY*[/b] job.

Improving and making better the Society we all live in, is the job of our elected leaders.

Yet it is axiomatic that our current "leaders" promise, but never deliver.

I would like - in fact, I require - that any politician who would like to earn my vote, presents me with a logical and rational case, for how they intend to improve my Society.

I expect that case to include explicitly defined deliverables, for the short (1 year), mid (2 - 3 years) and long terms (3 - 10 years). I would expect defined metrics, with established milestones for measuring achievements, and progress towards the overall goal.

And of course, I would like to see a budget for all this proposed activity.

Accepting a business case and investing in it, does not mean backing only ventures that are guaranteed to succeed even modest expectations. Some times, all it takes is the recognition of a better way of doing things, than is currently "Best Practice". Business models that seek, essentially, to introduce a new way of doing things (like On-line Games, Blackberries, Television talent shows etc.), and then to try and capitalise on being the first to introduce that new way of doing things, aren't always guaranteed to exceed beyond wildest expectation.

But achieving wildest expectation, and doing nothing else until that is guaranteed, is not the way to become profitable, or to improve situation.

And it is not expected of our political leaders that they perform miracles.

Though that is precisely what they promise us.

And it is why our strongest and most powerful "leaders" are always seen standing shoulder-to-shoulder with the most widely accepted religious miracle worker in their local culture, be that Moses, Jesus, Mohammed or J. D. Rockefeller.

The associations couldn't be more obvious, despite the glaring inconsistencies.

What our Society needs right now, is effective leadership. And effective leadership comes from rigorous examination and scrutiny of a candidate's plans and abilities to tackle difficult social problems.

It doesn't matter whether that candidate worships at the Altar of the Elephant, or the Altar of the Donkey; the Star, the Cross or the Crescent.

All that matters is:

Do they have an effective plan to improve Society?

Does that plan have defined milestones and objectives, on which we can measure progress and performance?

Do they appear to have the leadership qualities required to deliver their plan?

Read the above interview, and try not to think too much about how your Life and Society might be better if Ron Paul were to [b]*BECOME*[/b] President.

Try instead to think how different your Life and Society might be [b]*NOW*[/b], if Ron Paul had been governing the United States of America for the last eight years, instead of the present incumbent.

And then ask yourself if you really believe that your Life, and Society, would have been worse off than it is now, if Ron Paul had been President.

It is pretty academic now, to try and imagine a Ron Paul Presidency, since it would take a miracle for him to ever become President of the United States. But we can look at the template of leadership and representation that he presents us with; and start looking for other representatives who more closely match Ron Paul's qualities, than the qualities of a performing chimpanzee or sea-lion.

Peace