[quote][color=blue][i]Jon Town has spent the last few years fighting two battles, one against his body, the other against the US Army. Both began in October 2004 in Ramadi, Iraq. He was standing in the doorway of his battalion's headquarters when a 107-millimeter rocket struck two feet above his head. The impact punched a piano-sized hole in the concrete facade, sparked a huge fireball and tossed the 25-year-old Army specialist to the floor, where he lay blacked out among the rubble.

"The next thing I remember is waking up on the ground." Men from his unit had gathered around his body and were screaming his name. "They started shaking me. But I was numb all over," he says. "And it's weird because... because for a few minutes you feel like you're not really there. I could see them, but I couldn't hear them. I couldn't hear anything. I started shaking because I thought I was dead."

Eventually the rocket shrapnel was removed from Town's neck and his ears stopped leaking blood. But his hearing never really recovered, and in many ways, neither has his life. A soldier honored twelve times during his seven years in uniform, Town has spent the last three struggling with deafness, memory failure and depression. By September 2006 he and the Army agreed he was no longer combat-ready.

But instead of sending Town to a medical board and discharging him because of his injuries, doctors at Fort Carson, Colorado, did something strange: They claimed Town's wounds were actually caused by a "personality disorder." Town was then booted from the Army and told that under a personality disorder discharge, he would never receive disability or medical benefits.

Town is not alone. A six-month investigation has uncovered multiple cases in which soldiers wounded in Iraq are suspiciously diagnosed as having a personality disorder, then prevented from collecting benefits. The conditions of their discharge have infuriated many in the military community, including the injured soldiers and their families, veterans' rights groups, even military officials required to process these dismissals.

They say the military is purposely misdiagnosing soldiers like Town and that it's doing so for one reason: to cheat them out of a lifetime of disability and medical benefits, thereby saving billions in expenses. [/i][/color][/quote]

http://www.thenation.com/doc/20070409/kors

You guys support and remember "The Troops", so that the government doesn't have to...

The Bush Administration has bankrupted the U.S. Economy to the point where it can no longer afford to pay any of its bills.

When Bush came to power, oil was $25 a barrel, and the U.S.' oil import bill was less than $100 billion a year.  Eight years later, oil is $135 a barrel - and powering ahead towards $200 a barrel - and the U.S.' oil import bill, more than half a trillion dollars a year.

And the U.S. has to borrow every penny.

So the Bush Regime has to save costs somewhere, and Veterans' benefits, care and support, are an easy target: just use the same techniques that HMO's use to minimise pay-outs.

But that's okay because, you know, the US has Memorial Day, when all good, True Americans can acknowledge and respect the lives (not the deaths) of those other Americans who put their lives on the line, because they were asked (ordered...) to do so, by their Nation's Government.

Taking a nation to war, taking a nation's [b]*PEOPLE*[/b] to war, [b]*MUST*[/b] be the most serious and most considered decision ever undertaken by a nation's political representatives. Yet it is something that successive U.S. Governments have done, and have continued to do with reckless abandon since World War Two.

To the U.S. Government, deploying the U.S. Military is rarely an option of last resort; and is frequently the first, impulsive and unconsidered reaction, to almost any external provocation.

For the hundreds of American service personnel that die every year, 1,000's of miles away from their homes, and of course, the families they leave behind, it must take a tremendous effort of will to see their deaths as some kind of "Heroic Sacrifice", in the "Defence of Freedom".

But the dynamic is that 1 American life is worth at least 100 foreign lives. And that the heroic U.S. serviceman died whilst severely limiting the "Freedom" of those 100 foreigners also dead, is the root of the jingoism that the U.S. is accused of.

To non-partisans - i.e. neither American, nor "Enemies" of America - one human life is worth pretty much the same as any other. To mourn the loss of one, heavily armed, technologically superior, allegedly more "civilised" U.S. solider, whilst not [b]*ALSO*[/b] mourning the millions of lives lost as a result of U.S. military actions abroad, seems utterly inappropriate.

But Americans would not, can not, and are not allowed to see it that way.

"Freedom is Not Free".

Apparently.

And U.S. citizens are asked to make the "Supreme Sacrifice", in "Defence" of their country's "Liberty"; by regularly and routinely slaughtering much less heavily armed natives of the Third World.

And this exhortation is no different in method or substance, to that used by Islamists to inspire the "Faithful" to martyr their selves in suicide attacks.

No different.

No different at all.

But let us remember that for the dead, their troubles are over: they are Truly Free.

But for individuals like Specialist John Town, their struggle for personal Freedom has only just begun.

And the Government and politicians that took the decisions that caused Specialist Town to be in harm's way, for no discernible or noble purpose, have their own sacrifices to make now. This may be the sacrifice of their own gilded lifestyles, their own seat in Congress, or in the White House; or even a tithe from their own personal fortunes.

It should not be left to the Citizens to remember the poor bastards who (apparently) died in their name, apparently "for them and their Freedom"; and certainly not in some consumer-oriented jamboree.

Because that just makes the whole business of War seem like some kind of Festival.

Respect for the dead, particularly for those who died - or thought they were dying - in our name, should be a respectful, contemplative affair.

Not an extension of the Religio-Nationalist propaganda that fuels the whole War Machine, and keeps sending the walking dead back to their families to try and live a normal life, Free from nightmares.

I agree with Wunder and MegaGamePlayer.

Peace