Hmmmmm....

Starting to think it is Time for some Strategy Development (which is where you come in, Old Friend).

Quick Recap:

So blah, blah, blah, Shelley's crap yesterday.

Then a very... Therapeutic hour-long conversation with Lara (details below), whilst Shelley took the dogs for a looong walk, and I'm starting to suspect, smoked a joint.

I put Mo to bed in the usual fashion (Mr. Man; Mr. Benn; Trapdoor; Bagpuss - 1 of each while he calms down from the day). Halfway through Bagpuss, Shelley gets out of the bath and comes and joins us.

Mo then asks, after Bagpuss, if he and Shelley can go to sleep together in his room, which we all agree would be a good idea. I settle in for a quiet night, and (without Mo now) my first wank in about a week.

30 minutes later, Shelley comes in and sks about a new TV series I'd mentioned ("The Umbrella Academy"), and she gets into bed and we watch the first episode (4.6/5).

She starts falling asleep towards the end, and I sensed she wouldn't be wholly upset if she stayed asleep in our bed. Or maybe she was too stoned to care... (speculation and petulance on my part.)

But I didn't particularly want her to stay (and not just because of wanking possibilities...). It just didn't feel right. I think I surprised my self with the vehemence with which I wrote to you about requiring an STD screen from her.

Whatever... She went to leave the room, and at the door turned to me and said:

"I do not want to hear anything about drugs and drug use from you again."

I said nothing, but kept a neutral-leaning-slightly-towards-assent look and air about me.

I sensed she was giving me a... Condition.

Shelley left the room; uneventful rest of the night; I'm now writing this to you on the train.

OK.

I'm feeling a lot more Clear-Headed today than I was yesterday. As Clear-Headed as I was on Saturday night, before she pulled another stunt that made me so angry I rushed for the spliff.

Have Learned from that Experience now. Residual Risk identified: Control Measures in Place (I think You are the most important of those, old bean).

Right. The conversation with Lara.

...Was NOT about any "who-did-what-said-she-said-he-did" bollocks. (Well, maybe a little whilst we got up to Operating Pressure...)

It was about the fact that we are both in Love with Monsters, and living with them..

I knew things had always been pretty fucking terrible with Zacki and Lara. That there had been numerous physical assaults, more or less constant Zacki-driven explosive rows...

Did I ever mention that we had a Dawn Raid by the Police last year? About this time of year, IIRC.

Z and Lara were living separately at the time, had had a bust-up, and one way or another, a serious assault allegation was reported to the Police, hence the dawn raid.

Allegations against Z by Lara (or possibly her father) were dropped 6 hours later, and the Police brought Z home.

Anyhoo...

It was the evening of the same day of The Argument (the day before my Ministry bit...), when Shelley had gone off to work upset, because of the steam-rollering I had given her about &c.

I was waiting up for her, watching GoT, and she usually gets back between 21:30-22:00.

It was 23:00 and she still hadn't returned, when Lara came into the lounge, utterly distraught, because Z had just assaulted her again, and thrown her into the garden and locked the door.

I was comforting her when a still-upset-from-the-afternoon-"chat" Shelley returned.

I was angry and disgusted at Zacki, and I was still angry and became disgusted with Shelley at her reaction to the situation. And I certainly let rip some choice words about bot Zacki's and her appalling treatment of those who Love them most.

*THAT'S* the dialogue where I said things that *REALLY* dug into her: the words that really hurt her; the cold, hard Truth about the contrast between her Public and Private personalities.

Because I realise now, of course, that the Big Fat Elephant in the Room as far as Shelley's prowess as a Mum is concerned, is Zacki.

He has all of Shelley's worst characteristics, few of her redeeming qualities, and an explosive and violent temperament.

But he's only 20. And very conflicted. And he's my son too. And I will care for him forever.

(What to do with regards Zacki is now officially a Separate Topic, that will need to be compartmentalised in dialogue, if not in action.)

Suffice it to say that Shelley and Zacki bring out the worst in each other, because they recognise so much of their conflicted selves in each other. And of course, Zacki blames Shelley for his own volatility and lack of Self-Control; and Shelley blames her Self for *HIS* volatility and lack of Self-Control.

Shelley is not a Good Mother. Shelley *KNOWS* she is not a Good Mother. And was very, very, *VERY* hurt when I made that point forcefully and angrily to her.

And it's *NOT* because she is lacking in Love or the ability to show Love to the Boys: she can do that with Her Eyes Shut.

It's that she just hasn't got the hang of all the *BASICS* of Motherhood.

I don't mean the relentless, Fear-driven urges that many parents have to keep their kids whizzing around doing constant, Middle-Class-appropriate activities.

I mean the basics of Structure, Routine and Stability.

The same issue she has in other areas of her own Life.

Mostly because she feels her "Public" Identity is inimically tied to her Eternal Youth, and does not WANT to Grow Up.

But that's an analysis anyone who knows her could come up with. Certainly not telling you anything you don't already know.

The real substance of my conversation with Lara was about the remorseless abuse we both suffer at the hands of Shelley and Zacki. Abuse we have both witnessed each other receiving, frequently, almost incessantly.

Lara said she didn't know what she should do. I told her what I tell her every Time Zacki assaults her:

Leave him. Leave him now. While you still can. Get out. Now. It's not going to get any better, no matter how hard she tries to Love him and do nice things for him. He's just going to keep treating her like shit, because he doesn't know any better.

I then went on to say:

I'm stuck with Shelley for now, because of all three of my Boys: Zacki, Neo & Cosmo. She should get out before she gets similarly trapped.

We continued to share our Experiences with the Monsters we both Love.

Without putting thoughts or ideas in your head Fletch (the *CARDINAL* Sin as far as "Dark Shelley" is concerned...), I hope you have seen over the last few weeks how volatile, venomous and aggressive "Dark Shelley's" behaviour can be. Not from my recounting, but from her own contributions to the group you heroically created, and her off-line messages to you.

"Dark Shelley" is a bully and a tyrant.

"Light Shelley" is the most Beautiful Soul I have met in this Life.

"Light Shelley" I will continue to try and care for, for the rest of Our Lives - she will always be the Mother of Our Sons.

"Dark Shelley"... Notsomuch.

"Light Shelley" is *PAINFULLY* Self-Aware of the Negative Influence that "Dark Shelley" has on her Happiness and Enjoyment of Life. She struggles against it Endlessly, but usually loses that struggle.

Same goes for Zacki.

This Situation has nothing to do with some ill-chosen but well-intentioned words I may have used. This Situation has *MOST DEFINITELY* come to the Surface because of my participation with and co-enabling of Shelley's misuse of drugs.

This Situation is mostly about Shelley's Inner Struggle with the "Light" and "Dark" Sides of Her Nature.

It is also about Shelley's aggression towards me; her constant criticism and bullying of me; and her general dissatisfaction about her own inability (so far) to live Her Life Independently of Others.

My lack of Clarity around this over the last few weeks has been caused by my prior drug-misuse, and withdrawal from that. And from the fact that I didn't really know what *I* wanted out of the Situation.

I *KNOW* what I want now: Whatever is Best for the Boys.

That *HAS* to be My True North, from here onwards.

Yes, I can and will seek to restore a functioning Equilibrium between Shelley and I, regardless of what form that may take. Because that is what is best for the Boys.

Your persistent advice to "Park the sex..." aspect of the dynamic goes deeper than just not having sex. It is about de-prioritising the importance of mine and Shelley's romantic/adult Relationship, and prioritising the importance of Our Relationship with Our Sons.

So not just about not having sex; but also about not thinking or obsessing about having sex (or not).

There are more Important Matters to attend to: we've done enough fucking together, for the Time Being.

Neo definitely will not turn out like Zacki, because I gave Neo virtually *ALL* my Time and Attention for the first 7-8 years of his Life, and I'm confident his is immune to the same psychological defects that Zacki and Shelley have.

But Cosmo is a different matter. He certainly *DOES* have the propensity and disposition to be another Zacki - another Monster. And I have definitely noticed him veering away from that outcome, as I have given him more of my Time and Attention, increasingly over the past few months, and intensively over the last few weeks.

So it's now about trying to Right the Ship, and to try and hold to a Steady Course for as long as I am able; and until and if Shelley can ever help me do that.

Right. Now this is where *YOU* come in.

I know from previous Experience that "Dark Shelley" will occasionally allow "Light Shelley" to "Come Out", in order to garner sympathy, compassion and Love from me, when "Dark Shelley" has gone too far.

And as you know, I'm a Sucker for a Damsel-in-Distress. Especially One in whom I have invested so much Love, Time and Energy in. And I am very, very conscious that if and when she starts metaphorically "tickling-my-tummy", I am prone to forget and overlook her tendencies to let "Dark Shelley" back in control of her Life.

(Apologies for the poetic prose, but I'm just trying to let thoughts Flow here... Hope I'm not obfuscating my points..!)

I accept that I should have been much firmer, much sooner, with regards dealing with all the stuff that you've been getting splattered by these last three weeks.

I did (mostly) cut-off funding for our drug-use at the beginning of the year (didn't have much choice...); but I should have been equally insistent that the drug-use itself stop altogether. I absolutely *SHOULD* have stuck to my initial outraged reaction to Zacki's growing operation; and I absolutely should *NOT* have allowed myself to be bullied and coerced by Shelley and Zacki into acquiescence.

*MY* Bad.

But Enough About Me.

At *LEAST* until such Time as I feel there has been Enough About Shelley.

I've worn the Hair-Shirt for as long as I am prepared to, whilst she continues to refuse to.

So, two Requests for you, my Wise Counsellor:

Keep Me Strong..!!

And please suggest and advise on *PRACTICAL*, grounded, down-to-Earth, *REAL* steps that I can take with Shelley, to help me navigate towards my desired outcome: what is best for the Boys.

What I have from you so far:

No more illegal drugs is a given. And as the Time and Opportunity presents itself, I will try to further encourage Shelley to seek professional medical support, and perhaps some legally-prescribed medication to substitute for her self-medication.

Total and Exclusive focus on the Boys' Welfare: including and perhaps especially Zacki's.

Complete de-emphasis on the status of mine and Shelley's "Romantic"/"Intimate" Relationship (or lack thereof...).

I continue to work hard at developing additional, personal revenue streams (and pursue what I want to do with my Professional/Public Life) without requiring or anticipating that Shelley will be able to make any contribution any Time soon.

If and as Shelley ever allows, to assist her in developing her own structure for Professional Development and Progression.

Ultimately: Create a "New Normal" that has the Boys' Welfare as the Absolute Priority.

What I could probably do with in the immediate term:

Feedback from you on my assessment above; and guidance/suggestions on how to "negotiate" with Shelley's "Alternative Aspect".

There.

How does that sound?