[quote="Slacks"][color=#008080]Next question: why increase interest rates to (apparently) counter inflation when there's already this mechanism in place?[/color][/quote]

Because although this mechanism exists for any Nation with its own Central Bank and Currency, and functions exactly as described above, it would be Political Poison to acknowledge or declare it.

Think about the political ramifications:

"Inflation is rising, so we, your Government, are going to increase the amount you all pay in taxes."

That'd go down well, wouldn't it...

Traditional and accepted Economic Theory, which was established well before Governments moved to [i]fiat[/i] currencies, states that if there is too much Money sloshing around in the Economy, causing Inflation... Then the Central Bank can remove some of that Money by raising the Central Bank Interest Rate.

The mechanism is the same.

Central Banks create Money out of thin air, and pump it into the Economy through a variety of mechanisms, including setting the Central Bank Interest Rate below the prevailing rate of Inflation...

And if and when it observes Inflationary Pressures building up, the Central Bank can remove Money from the Economy by raising the Central Bank Interest Rate *ABOVE* the prevailing rate of inflation.

The Money that is then returned to the Central Bank cancels out the Money it created previously, thereby reducing the amount of Money circulating in the Economy, thereby helping to reduce Inflation.

In Theory, anyway. It isn't an exact science (nothing about Economics is), because there are other factors that contribute to Inflation. But this is the socially and politically acceptable mechanism for controlling inflation.

*MUCH* more acceptable than a Government announcing it is going to increase taxation, in order to remove some of the money it previously created and put into the Economy through its spending programs.

Fundamentally, I think it all comes down to the fact that most human beings do not understand what Money is.

Of all the people I regularly corner and Mansplain about Modern Monetary Theory until they surrender or commit suicide, perhaps only 1 in 10 is already aware that the entire Global Economy uses [i]fiat[/i] currencies with no convertibility to any tangible commodity...

And perhaps only 1 in 1000 is already aware that Money is not meant to be regarded as possessing any intrinsic value: that it is only an abstract created by Human Society to temporarily *STORE* Value.

(And bear in mind that most of the people I mug in this fashion, work for Banks..!)

This is the dynamic behind my somewhat crusading tone in the "Stock Market Primer..." thread.

We are talking about the one System - Money - that dominates virtually every one of our lives, often to the detriment of all other concerns... And yet, very, very few of us understand the first thing about it.

I'm catching a plane to the Netherlands on Monday.

That is: I am going to climb inside a metal tube, and sit alongside about 20 tonnes of human beings, whilst a couple of people at the front of the tube use electronics, hydraulics and plain old mechanics, to heave that tube into the sky, fly it a short distance, and then try and get it back down on the ground without too much drama...

And from the point that I get herded onto that plane, to the point I'm allowed to get off it, my Life will be entirely in the hands of other people, and the Systems they have designed to hopefully encourage repeat custom.

Many people are content to go through all that without giving a moment's thought to what's involved in the process... But I like to have some kind of an understanding of what's going on, when I put my Life in someone else's hands. That won't necessarily mean that I can do anything about it, if things go pear-shaped... But at least I'll understand *WHY* I'm plummeting to my Final Resting Place at the bottom of the English Channel, if it does.

Frankly, I find it a bit baffling that the One System that dominates pretty much all of our lives, whether we live in a multi-million pound flat in Chelsea, or a 2-yak Yurt in Outer Mongolia, is a System that is so little understood.

I know that there is a sense that Economics and the Monetary System is some kind of High Science, akin to Astrophysics or Neuroscience... But it *REALLY* isn't. Not even close.

Not even Science.

Billy Connolly tells the joke about two guys on Safari in Africa, hoping to get some decent photographs of lions.

They creep closer and closer to a pride they have found, and they know that the lions can see them, they're just hoping not to alarm them. And with each step, they can see and hear the lions getting more uncomfortable with their presence.

Until at one point, one of the guys stops, and takes a pair of running shoes out of his back-pack, and puts them on in place of his sturdy walking boots.

The other guy turns to him and says, "There's no point you putting on running shoes... You'll never outrun a lion."

To which the other guy responds: "I don't need to outrun the lions; I just need to outrun you."

It's the same thing with Money.

These "Masters of the Universe" and "Economic Wizards", much less any politician (ffs), neither know or need to know everything about Money.

They just need to know a little bit more about Money than the Rest of Us.