In Reply To #116

In Reply To #109

In Reply To #103

But International Law and International Law Enforcement can not practically be seen to be under the dominant control of a single section of International Society, no matter how mighty, aggressive or predisposed to violence that Nation or Society appears to be.

Yet in every society (governed by the rule of law) there is typically only one dominant force in control of enforcement (i.e. government).  When compared to your average citizen, police officers "appear" to be predisposed to violence as it is their job to do the heavy lifting.

In every model Society Foota - that is, in the Western Societies we hold to be the most ideal/enlightened/civilised - the Government IS the Society. That's Democracy for you. One branch of the Government determines the Law - The, uh, Legislative; and one branch of the Government upholds and enforces the Law - The Judiciary.

The Executive, incidentally, is the least component of all Democratic Government.

It is interesting that you see the Government as somehow separate from the Governed. And I think you also see the Executive Branch as distinct and disparate. That is a dynamic that only exists within Feudalism and Fascism Foota.

Remember, we are talking about the ideal here, we are talking about the template for sustainable, Peaceful and prosperous Society; we are talking about The Way We Want Things to Be.

I don't know about you, but I see a policeman as just another citizen, with a uniform on. He or she is no different to me, it is just that as a vocation, they have chosen to uphold the Law. That is all that is different.

Who actually enforces international law around the planet today?

No-one actually enforces International Law around the Planet today Foota.

Who do you think should enforce International Law around the Planet tomorrow?

The UN Blue-helmets based on the votes of dozens of competing nations with different agendas and versions of the "rule of law" at home?  It is painfully clear that the UN is dysfunctional when it comes to enforcement of the rule of law by allowing despots (who hate the rule of law) to protect their cronies from enforcement through democratic votes at the UN.

Are you talking about the United States protecting Israel here Foota?

You can't have it both ways Foota. The nation with the most egregious record of undermining the United Nations, is the nation that originally founded it. The United States has utilised the United Nations when it suited its purpose, and ignored it when the International Community has tried to restrain the U.S.

And yes, so too have other permanent members of the Security Council.

But it's a bit difficult to find fault with someone else doing exactly what you are doing, isn't it?

BTW - the current occupation of Iraq has the UN's "seal of approval".  So which laws are being broken right now?

No why did you write that Foota?

Firstly, you know that the United Nations declared the Invasion of Iraq illegal.

And secondly, after your rant about the ineffectiveness and illegitimacy of the United Nations, why even bother to refer to the UN's "seal of approval"?

Anyhoo, the International Law that was broken when the United States invaded Iraq, was the U.N. Charter that forbids the Invasion of Sovereign Nations.

The Geneva Conventions are International Law, as is the Nuremburg Standard, these have all been broken by the United States in the course of its Invasion and Occupation of Iraq.

Furthermore, the United States Constitution declares that International Treaties which the United States is a signatory to, become part of domestic Federal Law. So not only is the Bush Administration guilty of breaking International Laws, but U.S. Laws too.

But just you keep pointing the other way Foota, I'm sure no-one will notice that your Government are by far and a way the biggest Law breakers on the Planet; and the biggest obstacle to any kind of International Law being established - well, for now, leastways. :)

Peace