In Reply To #33

In Reply To #12

Then lets see whats the insurgents in Iraq using?

OH I KNOW! IRANIAN WEAPONS!

The writings on the wall.....

Yes, and the "writing" is Propaganda.

And not very good propaganda at that; but then, you don't need to be Goebbels to fool the likes of you.

Ask Foota or Fox News who has been responsible for the overwhelming majority of the violence and insurrection in Iraq since the U.S. invaded that country four years ago, and he/they would tell you that it is (or was) SUNNI insurgents in the form of "Ba'athist Remnants", "Al Qaeda in Iraq" and other assorted SUNNI miscreants.

That's all we've heard for the last four years. The violence and strife in Iraq is nothing to do with incompetent political strategy, directed from Washington D.C. and dictated by domestic political expediency. No, it's all about those damned Sunni insurgents, trying to spoil an otherwise philanthropic and altruistic attempt to bring a bit of civilisation to Iraq.

Now, the only people that Sunni Iraqis hate more than Americans, are Shia Iraqis. And the only people that Sunni Iraqis hate more than Shia Iraqis, are Shia Iranians (i.e. Iran as a whole).

And let us not also forget how delighted and pleased we all were at the promotion of Shia Iraqis to the dominant political and social force in Iraq, following all those wonderful, heart-warming, purple-fingered elections.

And let us not remember that the majority of the current Shia Iraqi Leadership has very strong ties with, uh, Shia Iran - far closer than say with Sunni Saudi Arabia. And let us not remember that the Shia Leadership of Iraq (enabled and facilitated by this worthy U.S. enterprise), will look to their confessional brethren in the neighbouring state of Iran, for economic, moral and military support, should the United States Government turn against the Shia Government and Militias of Iraq (as, uh, mandated by Bush's "Surge" plan).

So let's be clear:

The Shia Government of Iran has never and will never supply weapons and armaments to Sunni insurgents in Iraq.

However...

The Bush Administration has now decided to go after the Shia militias in Iraq.

The Bush Administration has been constantly and repeatedly threatening Iran with military action, with "no options off the table", for the last four years.

The Bush Administration has encircled Iran with a U.S. military presence in virtually all neighbouring countries.

The Bush Administration wants (and always has wanted) to reassert the domination over Iran that the lost in 1979.

The Bush Administration wants to take the domestic political focus off the complete and unmitigated disaster that is the Iraq Invasion and Occupation.

The Bush Administration wants to scapegoat Iran for its own catastrophic failures in Iraq.

The Bush Administration is politically extremely weak in the United States. There is no support for an attack on Iran, in the U.S., outside of the Vice President's office (the Oval Office these days is merely a crèche).

The Bush Administration needs to find a domestically politically acceptable justification to start another illegal War that will be at least as disastrous as the War on Iraq (and may even involve the use of nuclear weapons against a non-nuclear state).

Therefore...

The Brownshirts, the Dullards, the Fox News Devourers, the Frightened, the Paranoid, the Gullible, the Huddled Masses...

These must all be programmed to believe that Iran is the Greatest Threat to American Peace and Security in the World; and any and all steps can and must be taken to stop the Iranians fulfilling their goal of World Domination!

And judging by the comments and murmurs already mounting from the Usual Suspects around these parts...

It could be Mushroom Clouds over Tehran by Independence Day!

Yay!

Peace (One Day)