In Reply To #97

In Reply To #93

Holyman just curious what would be your recommendation for dealing with Iran? The UK seems to me to be just as vulnerable if not more geographically to Islamic Terrorism. If Iran does get a nuclear weapon do you see that as a threat to Europe or the US? If so what should be done about it? It is well known to anyone that reads my posts that I am not for aggression towards Iran but I do realize that a nuclear armed Iran is a serious danger. I feel the same danger applies to many European countries as well so what alternatives to our European Allies recommend? I totally respect your opinion (though to the left of me), I being more of an US Isolationist wonder why it only seems like the US is concerned about nuclear proliferation of some of these rouge states. I'm sure that is to a large part due to the limited exposure I have to European Media here in the US.

The primary and over-riding issue here is that no-one, outside of the White House, sees Iran as a threat, now, or even if it should become armed with nuclear weapons in the 5 - 10 years that 2005's NIE described as the earliest that Iran could gain such a weapon.

The notion that you describe is all predicated on the belief that Iran is actively and vigorously trying to develop nuclear weapons, and as soon as it has them, it will immediately use them irrationally.

I can not emphasise how much of a fiction this is. I really can not.

What you are missing from your limited exposure to European (and World-wide) Media is not a blasé European attitude to Iran, but an absolutely incredulous attitude towards the United States of America. The talking points across the non-U.S. media rarely, if ever mention Iran. And when they do, it is only ever in connection with the U.S.'s seemingly unstoppable (and incomprehensible) efforts to start another War as a response to the catastrophic failure of the Iraq Invasion.

For example: http://www.guardian.co.uk/comment/story/0,,2012317,00.html

Put very simply, a nuclear-armed Iran is no threat to World Security. A nuclear-armed Iran now, or in the next 10 or 20 years, is no threat to Israeli Security.

This whole situation, this whole re-run of the lead-up to the Iraq War, is predicated on the manufactured, wholly false, and not-so-casually racist view that Iranian Society is dominated by irrational, extremist Muslim Theocrats. And that they are feverishly developing nuclear weapons, and as soon as they have them, they will instantly use them to "wipe Israel off the map [sic]", and begin handing them out to terrorists like candy.

I really, really, REALLY can not emphasise enough how much of a fiction this is. It is a fiction that is solely intended for, and could only ever be consumed and believed by a certain, gullible cross-section of American society. No-one else in the Rest of the World believes any of this fiction.

The facts, the facts, the facts, the facts, the facts, the facts, THE FACTS just simply do not support this fiction. It is a wholly propagandistic device, entirely similar to devices used by Nazi Germany to justify its many invasions of European nations, and I might add, its persecution of minority groups.

Persian Iran is one of the most stable Middle Eastern countries; its Government, whilst too theocratic for Western tastes, is far more progressive than many of its contemporaries.

Put it this way, a nuclear armed Iran in 5 years (and that's just the first device btw, not an effective delivery system or substantial arsenal) is a far safer bet for World Security than the current nuclear armed Pakistan (currently friends of the Bush Administration). Pakistani Society and politics is far less stable than Iran, and given Pakistan's porous border with Afghanistan, it is far more likely that Americans (and British) would be killed by a nuclear device driven into Kabul in a truck from Pakistan, than by any Iranian aggression.

My advice to you would be to pay very clear attention to what your own American Intelligence, Military and Diplomatic institutions are saying. Trust nothing that comes from the entirely criminal, hopelessly discredited, and profoundly malignant Bush Administration.

The Bush Administration's propaganda is designed solely to frighten the American public into supporting another War that will have to be far more disastrous than the Iraq War, and given Chinese and Russian interests in and borders with Iran, could well end up engulfing the entire World.

Put it this way, even Foota doesn't support military action against Iran. If that doesn't convince you how fucked-up up this situation is, nothing will.

Peace