In Reply To #103

The reason why much of the world is peaceful and prosperous is due to Britain colonizing and writing laws (founded on morals?) throughout the world.

You wrote that Foota, not me.

It is ALL about the Rule of Law.

Not the rule of ideology, politics, morality, religion, but the Rule of Law.

Ideology, politics, morality and religion are undoubtedly the foundation of laws, but they are not the Law in itself, and they are not and can not practically be a law unto themselves.

Actually, the Laws that have enabled Peace and prosperity over the last 60 years are mostly the work of America, not Britain. They are the U.N. Charter, the Nuremburg standards and the Geneva Conventions.

In a World laid waste by World War Two, only the United States was in a position of authority and power enough to implement such Global legal standards, with the acquiescence of all other nations,  yay, even unto the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China.

The Rule of Law is immutable Foota. Once laws are authored, established and enacted, they become wholly self-determinate. They are not open to interpretation, they are not able to be undermined, they are what we intended them to be, when we created them.

Let's be clear here, we're not talking about legislation governing safety standards in automobile manufacture. We're not talking about legislation covering corporate and social responsibility, all of which are grist to the armies of lawyers our Society is blighted with.

We are talking about International Laws that were created and instituted to preserve the Peace and prosperity of all the Humans of the World.

We are talking about International Laws that are the subject of diplomatic treaty recognition, signed up to by Nations, and in most cases (including the United States) supersede domestic laws.

Morality, religion, ideology, politics DO act as the foundation of the Law, they inform the authoring of laws, they influence the democratic process that agrees to, authorises and legitimises specific laws.

But these ideologies do not trump the Rule of Law. Once laws are established, they can not be overturned in enforcement or judgement, because someone feels that their morality is superior to those laws. If the Law needs changing, then there is an established, democratic process for changing the Law, even and especially International Law.

If someone or some Society feels a burning moral or religious need to alter the nature of a Law, then there is a process that must be gone through to effect that change. That process consists of convincing a democratic majority of those who will be required to abide by that Law to agree to that Law.

The Law can have no legitimacy without such agreement.

What the United States has done over the last six years is to turn its back on the International Rule of Law. The justification it has used to do this, is to say that existing International Law is ineffective and immoral. The United States has claimed a moral justification for ignoring and overturning International Laws that, by and large, were inspired and established by the United States in the first place.

Perhaps the U.S. feels that as it was the progenitor of these International Laws and norms, it is able to ignore them whenever it chooses. But if that is the case, the U.S. is ignoring the fact that those Laws it generated could not have been founded without the agreement of the International Community.

The United States did not design, implement and impose the U.N. Charter, the Nuremburg Standard and the Geneva Convention on the World after World War Two; it encouraged, facilitated and championed the establishment of those Laws with the agreement and acceptance of the World.

And for the last six years, and continuing, the United States has become the most egregious International Outlaw on the Planet.

There IS a need for a more developed system of International Law. There IS a requirement to develop International Law so that it governs how Nation States conduct themselves domestically as well as internationally. There IS a need to establish an effective International Police Force that has the legitimacy of the Law and can enforce it with the respect and approval of the International Community.

But International Law and International Law Enforcement can not practically be seen to be under the dominant control of a single section of International Society, no matter how mighty, aggressive or predisposed to violence it appears to be.

The United States does not have a monopoly on morality, and it does not have a monopoly on the process of establishing and enacting International Law.

If the United States wishes to effect a positive change throughout International Society, and promote the Rule of Law and champion Freedom and Democracy, then it must first become the change it wishes to see in the World.

No person or Society will take lectures on morality and Law from a Nation that clearly behaves so immorally and illegally.

Peace