Well, thing is, Morality is a hugely difficult metric to use or apply in the best of circumstances.

Primarily because Morality is *ALWAYS* a matter of perspective, which makes its use as an objective measure of actions or intentions virtually impossible.

This is why Humans developed Law.

We describe, agree and institute what actions are legal and what actions are illegal, and then use that as the only viable objective measure. That measure will determine a verdict of guilt, or not, and then, in the case of a guilty verdict, it is up to the Judiciary to assign an appropriate punishment based on mitigating factors.

But what is generally *NOT* considered by the Judiciary, is the *MORALITY* of an action; they will rather look at circumstance, necessity and provoking factors.

So, clearly, killing someone in the act of (immediate) self-defence is generally considered to be a clearly mitigating factor. And indeed, if there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the killing of someone else was an immediately necessary action to prevent their killing you, then it is unlikely that you would even be charged with a crime.

But it would be a different matter if someone had tried to kill you but failed, and then a day or so later, you sought them out and killed them whilst they were *NOT* immediately in the process of trying to kill you.

Indeed, if someone were to kill your child and then, sometime afterwards, you tracked them down and killed them, you *WOULD* be guilty of a crime and be punished accordingly. Morally-speaking, you would (generally) be considered to be in the right; but legally, you would be entirely in the wrong.

The morality of your action might be a factor in the sentence you receive, but it would not prevent your being found guilty of a crime. And it would be up to the Judiciary to consider the moral factor. You would not be let off scot-free because you and your supporters agreed (and insisted) that the revenge killing was the morally appropriate thing to do.

Now, looking at Moral Relativism and the quantitative relation to other crimes:

The problem with using mass-murder and genocide as a yard-stick for measuring the seriousness of a single murder, is that it just isn't practical or socially appropriate to delineate a crime on the basis of how much worse it could have been.

So (with due defence to Godwin's Law...), Hitler was responsible for the deaths of at least 20 million people (arguably more, but we're into Stalin's "Deaths as a Statistic" territory here). Does that mean that a person who only kills 1 person should only receive 1/20,000,000th of the moral and social opprobrium we heap on Hitler's ghost? Should that mean that the punishment meted out to the killer of a single individual should be 1/20,000,000th of the punishment we reserve for mass-murderers?

What is our response to a murderer anyway?

I don't personally support the concept of Capital Punishment, but let's say that execution or a "Whole-Life" prison sentence is the appropriate punishment for someone who provably murders someone else.

How do you magnify that punishment for somebody who has killed more than one other person?

Hitler could or would have been executed for causing the death of a single individual in one of the Concentration Camps that operated under his control. What punishment could or would he have received for causing the deaths of 20 million people?

Alright, well let's forget Judicial Process, Crime and Punishment and look purely at the Morality of it all.

If we say that somebody who has killed 20 million people is a very, very, *VERY* bad person; doesn't that then imply that somebody who only kills a single person, or a small number of people is "*NOT* as bad a person as they could have been"?

Don't we soften our moral outrage against the murderer of a single victim because they didn't kill as many as they might have done?

It seems that way to me.

So the attitude I take is: if you kill just one person, you have lost all moral rectitude. How many more people you kill is irrelevant, as you have no more moral rectitude to lose. You became completely morally wrong at the point at which you killed one person; you can't become *MORE* morally wronger-er because you kill more people.

And I should add as a rider to my position that I am a Pacifist. That is a different stance to those people who believe that violence is *NEVER* justified. As a Pacifist, I allow myself to use violence where I need to immediately defend myself (or others); but only when dealing with an immediate threat. But I don't allow myself to hunt people down and use violence against them as either a preventative or vengeful measure.

:>_