In Reply To #120

In Reply To #116

Doesn't the U.S. Constitution, as written, make the President answerable to the People of the United States? Is the President not obliged to reflect the wishes of those People?

Yup - the U.S. President is answerable to the people every 4 years.

Surely the U.S. President only answers to the People ONCE in 8 years?

S/He initially gets voted in on manifesto promises, without actually doing anything as President that requires being "answerable" to; and then, four years later, there is a single national vote of support or rejection. Four years after that, s/he goes regardless of whether they have done a good job as President or not.

So you vote a new President in based on how good a job people think they WILL do, and over the next eight years, the American population gets just one single opportunity to reject that President.

This is a political/electoral system that was established in the late 18th Century.

Given how different the World, and the United States is in the 21St Century, and how rapidly things change in the Modern World, do you not see a need to update this system?

For obvious reasons, you can't run policy (much less a war) by constantly refering to polls or focus groups.

I would agree that military strategy and tactics shouldn't be operated by constantly referring to civilian opinion, but by responding to the situation on the ground.

But the U.S. Military's operations in Iraq are entirely operated by constant reference to the two civilians in the White House aren't they? The Joint Chiefs, as well as the military commanders in Iraq are continually over-ruled, ignored and replaced by Bush and Cheney aren't they?

And as far as Government Policy being run by reference to polls, isn't that the basis of Democracy?

The most recent election had about 40% turnout, where just over 50% of them voted for Democrats (or voted for "change".)  I would not call that an overwhelming mandate - would you?

Well, actually, given that the campaign message from the White House during the Mid-Terms was (more or less) "America is at War: Support Your President by Voting for His Party", and only a maximum of 20% of Americans voted Republican, I'd say that was a pretty clear mandate for opposition to the Occupation and continue Rape of Iraq.

And recent opinion polls seem to bear this out don't they? 61% of Americans disapprove of Bush's handling of the War don't they, and more see the whole episode as a giant mistake.

Anyway, what was the turn-out in the 2004 Presidential Election? Did Bush get an "overwhelming mandate" to continue the "War" in that Election? And wasn't his original election as President determined by the member of SCOTUS? Was that an "overwhelming mandate" to take the US down its most disastrous Foreign Policy venture since Vietnam?

Don't you feel there is something amiss with the fact that since Bush squeaked home in 2004, Americans were immediately denied ever again being able to vote to register their dissatisfaction with his performance?

His Administration is now so isolated from the rest of the Republican Party, that Republican losses in 2006, and presumably a Democratic walkover for the Presidency in 2008 don't seem to bother him at all either.

Don't you think it is Time to Change Everything?

BTW - Good to see you back.

Aww, thanks. :)

Likewise my old sparring partner: I missed you most of all Scarecrow. ;-)

Peace