In Reply To #150

I think one of the biggest things that has changed in the "modern world" is the speed in which we can get information, the connection of 1st and 3rd world societies through communication and travel, and the indoctrinating effect of 24/7 sensational media.

You know that I have a fair amount of contempt for the "sheep" which I believe is roughly 40% of the population - who don't take the time to get informed and simply vote (if they vote at all) on emotion or whatever campaign commercial they think is clever.

There's a corollary to the increase in the quantity and frequency of information available though, and that is an increase in the ability of people to understand and comprehend that information, or much more of it than in the past.

Literacy rates and educational standards are that much higher in 21st Century America and Europe than they were in the 18th Century, and it is much more difficult for politicians to pull the wool over the eyes of the "sheep".

Bear in mind also the impact of Emancipation on the levels of discernment and participation. In the 18th Century, voting was restricted to far fewer people than is the case now - women being the primary example. The increase in the number of people eligible to vote, and the decreased ability of elite politicians to tell the Public to go about their business while the elite "take care of things" has had a major impact on the operation of government.

As for the "sensational" media, one shouldn't forget that media outlets are licensed for operation by the Government. If the Government feels that the media has a pernicious or skewing affect on the business of Government and Politics, the Government alone is in a position to change the situation.

But of course, the Government is the single biggest culprit for the sensationalising of news reporting...

Remember "Smoking Gun... Mushroom Cloud"?

True democracy is chaos.

Then Iraq must be the most Truly Democratic Nation on Earth...

Mission Accomplished!

Peace