[quote=JFitch][color=purple]Holyman: does this replay of your life happen once or continue for eternity? Also, what is the point of replaying your life, and what about those who die very young without little experience or knowledge to understand?[/color][/quote]

The replay is known as the "Life Review" in Near Death Experience circles.

NDE testimonies often describe an event similar to the one described in "The Egg". The common theme is always the sense of being bathed in Unconditional Love and Compassion, and any Fear of judgement or condemnation just melts away with the body.

The Life Review is frequently described as a replay of one's entire Life, seen not just from one's own perspective, but from the perspectives of everyone else whose lives they affected.

So for example, Hitler would have experienced all the pain and all the suffering of his victims, from their perspective, and at the intensity at which they experienced it. Or equally, Jesus the man would have experienced all of the Love and compassion he showed the people he met and whose lives he touched, exactly as they experienced it from him.

For those less exalted of us souls, we would experience something between those poles, experiencing the Emotions and thoughts of everyone whose lives we interacted with. So for example JF, when I die, I will experience your reading this post from your perspective, hear all of the thoughts you are having right now, and feeling any and all emotion you may feel now.

Whilst simply replaying your own Life from your own perspective may be of limited benefit, particularly if you have a very good and clear memory of your own Life in any case, viewing it from the perspectives of everyone else touched by your Life can be very instructive.

And the purpose of this instruction? Exactly as stated in "The Egg": to mature.

We are each one of us an eternal consciousness, each an indivisible part of Everything. Our eternal purpose is to evolve Spiritually, by experiencing absolutely everything and anything. Our default state of Existence and Awareness is Oneness with Everything. We incarnate in order to Experience the one thing that we cannot Experience in our actual state of Existence: separation from Everything.

We want to Experience separation from Everything, so that we can understand the nature of our connection to Everything, by learning how to re-connect with Everything.

We design successive Lifetimes to enable us to Experience every possible aspect of Being, every possible element of Existence. In our Spiritual State, Space and Time are not constraints imposed upon us. We Experience Existence precisely as we choose to, how we choose to, and when we choose to.

And these Lifetimes are exactly analogous with computer games.

We immerse ourselves into a constructed reality, with the express desire to forget who we actually are for a moment, and imagine being someone else in a different set of circumstances.

We do this because it brings us joy to do so, and because it provides us with an opportunity to see how effective we are in different situations and circumstances. These opportunities enable us to learn about ourselves, which aids our desire to evolve and mature in our understanding of Existence and Everything.

Now whilst these are Beliefs I have that are based on personal and shared experience, I do recognise that they are just Beliefs JF. For the period that I've held these Beliefs, they have stood up pretty well to intellectual rigour, and I'm more than happy to discuss them. However, I recognise that they are just Beliefs, and not anything I would get the least bit exercised about someone else not accepting, or even challenging my right to accept them as my personal Beliefs.

I'm cool with it all.

I might be right. I might be wrong.

It could be all just so much oblivion. In which case I figure I won't be in a position to wallow in too much regret about a Life lived misguided. So no worries there.

And if, Heaven forbid, you Abrahamists are on the money, well, then I'll just accept whatever it is coming to me, and not try to pretend that people like you didn't try to warn me. :)

[face_peace]