In Reply to #1

I kind of get paid to be myself. :)

(Which is a job I'd recommend EVERYONE get - and don't stop changing jobs until you get it!)

But on a day-to-day basis that means:

Integrating People and Systems.

All kinds of Systems.

I came up through the trenches doing IT desktop and network support, back in the day when it wasn't fashionable, and one "IT Bloke" was expected to cover anything and everything to do with those new fangled computer things.

I'll be 38 in a couple of years, and at that point, I'll have been working full-time as an IT professional for 20 years... Which I suppose makes me feel kind of old... :-/

Early on in my IT career, my job was to get people who were using NO computer technology, to begin to use it. That was pretty much the first half of the 1990's. By the middle of the decade, the World Wide Web was two years old, and people were starting to think seriously about having a computer at home, not just at the office.

I spent the second half of the 1990's working as a freelance IT contractor, for banks and insurance companies in the City of London. This meant that not only did I have unlimited budgets, useful for the creative investigation of system capabilities and possibilities; it also meant that my user-base was sufficiently affluent to all be early-adopters and users of home computers.

And this meant that my task of integrating People and Systems, was much easier because of the increasing cultural and social acceptance of technology into people's every day lives.

The trick always was, and is, to bring two co-equal parties together, rather than dominate one dynamically inferior party, with a superior one.

So it was never about integrating People WITH Systems, or vice-versa; but bringing the two elements of the work environment - People and Systems - together, to create a wholly NEW system: a system which combines the best qualities of the contributing component, and de-emphasises or negates the worst qualities of either.

When cheap computing technology first came on the Scene, there was a tendency for guys like me to more or less force technology onto people who had little or no experience of it, let alone any enthusiasm for the stuff. But what began as a requirement, soon became a habit, and more and more technology - more technology than could usefully be used - was thrust on People, until it reached a point of technical overload.

Also known as: the Dot-Com Bust.

That was more or less the break-point, after which People shifted their focus to developing their ability to use EXISTING technology; rather than continue to frantically chase some mythical competitive advantage that could or would arise from their being the FIRST (usually only by a matter of weeks) business in their marketplace, to adopt the latest technology.

So right there, the Tide Turned.

Whereas previously it had been about integrating new Systems, with old People; it is now about integrating People with the massively capable technological Systems that are now available to them.

During the 1990's, there was a ferocious drive to develop the faster and fastest processor. All well and good, but I figured that by the time there was more raw processing power under the hood of a BMW 5 Series, than was used for the Apollo 11 mission, People probably had enough technology to be getting on with.

And the semi-conductor manufacturers hit the physical limit on exactly how much processing power can be squeezed out of sand and copper, at about the same time as the Dot-Com bust; and about the same time as the bandwidth of an Internet connection became far more important than the raw processing power of a CPU.

So everything kind of hit the floor, walls and ceiling, at about the same moment.

What has followed since the beginning of this decade is a more mature attempt to bring Humans and Technology together, particularly in the Workplace. Though some thought it, and many feared it during the 1990's, technology can never fully replace the human being in the workplace.

Technological systems can REPLICATE human behaviour; but they can never CREATE behaviour of their own: the Systems quite simply lack the Imagination required: whilst computers and robots will always KNOW how to do something; only Humans are capable of UNDERSTANDING how to do that something BETTER.

Effective business decisions, affecting multiple business dynamics, are made using far less quantifiable data and systemised instructions, than computer could cope with. Truly *INSPIRED* business decisions, are often the result of someone completely REJECTING instructions, and acting in the face of quantified data.

Good business decisions are as much or more about feeling and intuition; than they are about deliberate action based on quantified data, used to make a justifiable choice.

Good, efficient and reliable business relationships are as much about empathy and mutual interest, as personal friendships are. Such business relationships are built on a common understanding between parties, and a mutual interest.

Part of my work involves expanding the common understanding in business relationships; and identifying mutual interests.

Well, the really fun part of my work is, anyway. :)

The other, slightly less really fun part of my work, is creating and integrating the technological systems that support these relationships, with one another, and with the People that use them.

And that primarily means managing the flow of information between different systems, and between those systems, and People.

But my "Systems" brief includes *ALL* Systems, so I also take care of things like International Standards Organisation (ISO) Management Systems. Like the ISO 9001/2 Quality Management Systems Standard, or ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems Standard.

I integrate Management Systems with Technological Systems; and I integrate the resulting Integrated Systems, with the Cultural Systems of People in the Workplace.

Basically. :)

Peace