11 August 2015

Naked Alternatives

If the overwhelming sentiments on display around you are for: mass consumption; debt-fuelled hedonism; and complete apathy about the way that rich people convince idealistic young people to kill impoverished people...

...Then I'd suggest you were living in the first decade of the 21st Century, in the immediate aftermath of the millennial celebrations and 9/11.

I'd also suggest that while people are letting off that kind of steam, you're not going to stand a snowball's chance in Hell of affecting any kind of progressive change: you might as well run with the herd and enjoy the Party.

But if the overwhelming sentiment is a general and widespread dissatisfaction with the Ruling Elites (from whichever "side"); if people are thirsting for the actual Truth (even if it comes from someone as obnoxious as Donald Trump) rather than Propaganda; and if more and more people are bypassing the unfair and unbalanced strangleholds on information, money and government...

...Then I'd say you were living Today: Right Here and Right Now.

Big Changes are happening everywhere you look.

Political candidates and Parties that do not represent a continuation of the Economic-Political-Professional status quo are emerging all over Europe: (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syriza) SYRIZA in Greece; (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Podemos_(Spanish_political_party) ) Podemos in Spain; (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beppe_Grillo) Beppe Grillo's Five Star Movement in Italy; (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeremy_Corbyn) Jeremy Corbyn for the Labour Party in the U.K.

And in the U.S., Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump are currently in the frame as viable (if somewhat unlikely and decidedly imperfect) candidates for the Presidency.

The critical thing about Trump, Sanders and their European counterparts, is not that they may achieve Office, or be able to pursue their stated agendas (SYRIZA were spectacularly and shamefully thwarted from doing so): it is that their presence in the Public Consciousness - and in some cases, even on the ballot cards and/or in government - means that the Established Power Elites are losing their grip on the ability to control things in a way that progresses and maintains their maximal advantages.

The distinction here is not between Left and Right, but between those that wish to maintain a System that personally advantages themselves (at the expense of all others), and those that wish to see the current System shut down and replaced with something else.

It doesn't matter that Donald Trump is a repugnant buffoon, with a hugely over-inflated Ego. What matters is that he is (currently - http://www.counterpunch.org/2015/08/10/swan-song-for-the-donald-gop-party-bosses-plan-to-take-out-trump/) speaking Truth to Power. He is going against the grain of complicity and subservience to Finance Capital; he is not trying to pretend that when the U.S. bombs another country, it does so for "Humanitarian" reasons, or any reason other than pure self-interest; and he is shattering the illusion that the U.S. Political System is any less corrupt and distorted than every other centre of political power in the World.

That he is doing all this from the Right Wing rather than the Left, is not only appropriate, it is also - in all likelihood - the only direction from which these illusions can be shattered. The combined might of the Progressive Left have been saying for years, to little or no effect, what Trump said to much greater effect in just a few seconds last week.

Trump is presenting himself as the fully naked candidate for the Emperorship. He is not trying to brainwash the Masses into agreeing that he is wearing a wonderful set of new clothes.

We may not want to vote for that particular fully-naked candidate, but we should admire and welcome his brazen display of such nakedness. It is the kind of display that has, after all, brought the actual nakedness of everyone else that is, was, or desires to be the Emperor into sharp relief. The palpable shame and embarrassment of the other candidates in last week's Republican Primary Debate is testament to that.

Jeremy Corbyn in the U.K. is doing exactly the same thing in the contest to become the next leader of Britain's Labour Party. Alex Tsipras and the SYRIZA Party in Greece also did the same thing. And even though they were totally crushed by the German-led European Establishment, that sheer and unabashed display of anti-Democratic, Finance Capital-driven crushing of a Democratic Society (the Society in fact where Democracy was born), was just as much an exposure of the lies that dominate our lives as anything that Trump and Corbyn are saying.

It is not what status or authority these people may personally achieve for themselves that is crucial, but the way in which they are exposing others' naked quests for power and dominance.

On a grander scale, we are also seeing the huge shift in Geo-Political domination from the unipolar, "Sole Superpower" that is the United States, to the multipolar, far more collegiate and inclusive coalition of (primarily) the BRICS Nations.

There are three pivotal points in World History that have occurred (so far!) during my lifetime:

1989/1990: 	the collapse of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War

2001:  9/11

2008:  the collapse of the Western Banking (Finance Capital) System.

Prior to the collapse of the Soviet Union, the United States was dominant; much more dominant than the Propaganda of the time allowed, but it wasn't rampant. It was necessarily restrained (or constrained) by the presence of another Power-Bloc that it could not bully or coerce as freely as it could everyone else.

But that changed when the Soviet Union collapsed. The U.S. made sure that immediately post-Soviet Russia was run by a drunkard who permitted the sale of Russia's Economic Infrastructure to criminals (the "Oligarchs"). The declared advice to all U.S. Presidential Administrations after the Cold War ended, which informed all subsequent policy, was to never allow another national society or power-bloc on the Planet to rise to a level where it could threaten U.S. dominance of the World.

Increasingly through the 1990's, the United States could and did act unilaterally, especially with regards to military violence and economic sanctions. But there was still at least a pretence of restraint (necessary to sell such adventures to the domestic audience); and internal power squabbles within the U.S. frequently retarded the pursuit of a fully Imperial Policy.

That changed after 9/11.

After 9/11, the U.S. Government divided the World into those that were "With Us" - i.e. did exactly what was ordered by the U.S. Government, without protest or challenge; and those that were "Against Us" - those Nations that still wished to pursue a National agenda that was independent of U.S. dictat.

Examples were made of those Nations that refused to toe the U.S. line: Iraq, Venezuela, Libya, Syria, Iran &c. And the World's "Champion of Freedom and Democracy", "The One Exceptional Nation", embarked on a campaign of extortion, violence and murder that would make a Mafia Commission blush.

Then in 2008, as a direct consequence of arrogance, unilateralism and hubristic myopia, the System of Finance Capitalism that formed the core of U.S. Power, collapsed completely.

And it is important to understand that it did collapse completely.

Everything that has followed 2008 has been an attempt to disguise the fact that the (primarily Western) Finance Capital System has collapsed completely. A combination of a massive transferral of wealth from the Public Sector to the Banking Sector and the relentless churning of the (digital) printing presses that create money out of thin air, have been futile attempts to try and conceal the fact of this total collapse from the Public at Large.

But such attempts were never going to be able to rebuild a System that had destroyed itself and which was never really "Fit for Purpose" in the first place. And the constant and platitudinous reassurances that "the Economy is/has recovered" were never going to be congruent with the remorseless imposition of "Austerity" policies all over the Western World.

Now, we have entered a new phase in Human Social Development.

Thanks largely to the Internet, human beings are far more intellectually emancipated and objectively informed than they have ever been. Whilst human beings have always had an innate instinct for sniffing out lies, they have also had an evolutionarily-honed sense for self-preservation, which has discouraged them from declaring something to be untruthful when it so obviously is untruthful.

For example: we know when someone we work alongside is lying, but we may feel disinclined to call them out for their lies, for fear that it may harm our job prospects and/or threaten our livelihoods. That doesn't mean we don't smell and recognise the lies; just that we are more concerned with our own - and/or our own family's - survival, than we are concerned with highlighting a colleague's or an employer's obvious untruthfulness.

Same thing goes for the lies and propaganda that our political, religious and financial elites have been spouting all these years.

But that's all changing now, because Human Society is so much more interconnected. We are much more willing and able to test and verify what we are told, rather than just take it on faith alone. We can peer-review the "information" we are fed by the Mass Media, and with the potential for our critiques to "go viral", we are no longer so shy about declaring the undressed to be naked.

Turns out that we far prefer having someone like Donald Trump who just speaks his truth (even as we obviously disagree with his particular truth), than someone who believes just as Trump does, but tries to pretend, and convince us, that they don't.

At least we know where we stand with someone like Trump. At least we don't have to have the kind of arguments we've been having with Arch-Conservatives all these years: where we have to try and demonstrate and convince them of the self-serving hypocrisy that is so obviously manifest in the actions and policies of people who claim to be acting for "The Greater Good"... The kind of people who tell us that the village had to be destroyed, in order to save it...

The Tide has turned. And the only thing we have to do ourselves is to recognise that it has turned.

We don't have to dramatically alter our lifestyles, our consumption choices, or even our personal levels of social and political activism. We just have to acknowledge that a corner has been turned, recognise that things are changing for the better, and position ourselves to support and encourage these developments, in whatever way seems most appropriate to each of us as individuals to do so.

It was bound to happen sooner or letter. Because to reclaim a much abused phrase:

There really is no alternative.

Stephen Winspear is a peaceful and (mostly) amused observer, living in London. He can be contacted at stephen@1person.com