[quote=SomeGuy[PCNC]][color=blue] Yet you don't think that's a problem? The minority effectively controlling the majority like that? That's exactly how the unsavory kinds of governments (fascist, dictators, corrupt theocracies, etc.) come into power. There's a really fine line between tolerance and total apathy. It's more than possible to be tolerant yet still adhering to your laws and rights.[/color][/quote]

Oh, I think it's just an indelible facet of the Human Condition SG.

Fact is that in just about every developed democratic Society (including the U.S.), it's rarely more than a quarter of the populace that ever really gives a fuck about anything that doesn't directly affect them.

Take our little Community here at =PBF= as a representative sample group.

You've got the likes of you and I, Foota, Vaxx, Traci, MadCat, Manus and one or two others who get exercised about the "Issues of the Day". But we're definitely in the minority. The majority of PBF'rs really don't get that worked up about the things that don't directly affect them, and which they can't do anything directly to effect. And yet, with the exception of a few occasional lulls, this board is dominated by threads created by the likes of you and I, where we can proselytise, preach and procrastinate, primarily to promote ourselves as prosaic (and usually priapic) proponents of our own principles.

(When actually most people find the pre-eminence our preening quite preposterous.)

There's a lot of faux outrage expressed around here, and any visitor or casual drop-in must imagine they find themselves in a rather ineffective self-help group for the terminally self-righteous. Our underlying motivation is, as it is for these individuals who have been somewhat inauspiciously forbidden from visiting the UK, to be noticed.

That's it. We just want to be seen and heard. We want to demonstrate to ourselves that there is some validity to our Existence. Nothing else explains the amount of time and energy we pour into our perpetually outraged presence here.

We're really not looking to get to the root cause of complex social and political challenges; we're far more interested in proving ourselves in the field of rhetorical conflict.

And actually, the majority of people are largely above this; or beyond this... They're more into personal identification than having to ally themselves with some party doctrine or ideological stereotype. And they're not at all into listening to (or reading) insecure personalities squabbling amongst themselves with no hope of a peaceful resolution or positive outcome.

So, unless we're actually talking about subjects that directly affect people's lives, or at most, subjects that people can directly and actively involve themselves in, then most really don't give a fuck.

If one set of loud-mouths want to try and ban another set of loud-mouths from being physically present in a particular country or nation in order to spread their views, then why would that or should that bother the majority?

I mean, if banning some of these people from entering the UK would actually get them to shut the fuck up completely and not conversely promote their cause, then I might support such a cause; but it won't, so I don't.

As for it being another inch further down the slope towards tyranny and fascism...

Well, you would say that, wouldn't you SomeGuy.

[face_peace]