30th November, 2018

Nationalism (and Money) Will Be the Death of Us All

There are some very, very bright and intelligent USAmericans. I know. I've worked (and continue to work) with a lot of them... But even some of the really bright ones are intellectually hobbled by their Nationalist Conditioning.

Which is a shame.

If or when Humanity irreparably damages the ability of the Planet to sustain Human Life (in an even remotely comfortable manner), all these imaginary lines we've drawn on our Maps of the Globe will count for nothing.

The United States of America may well be - for the time being - the "Richest" Nation on Earth, but the reality is that "Money" isn't really a thing... It's just something that Human Beings came up with to keep score. If and when the collapse of the Planet's (Human-Appropriate) Environment really takes hold, "Money" will become completely useless.

"Money" is solely a measure of the "Trust and Confidence" we Human Beings have in each other. A $100 bill is only worth "one hundred dollars", because we all agree it is worth that.

If we all start agreeing that bits of paper with numbers printed on them - or the numbers displayed on our computer and smartphone screens - are nowhere near as useful to us as the ability to shelter from a hostile Environment, then "one hundred dollars" will be "worth" as much to each of us as "one hundred pounds", "one hundred euros", or "one hundred Bitcoins".

I.e. nothing.

So all of a sudden, the U.S.'s claim to be "the Richest Nation on Earth", becomes utterly meaningless.

And to be frank, so too will the currently undeniable fact that the U.S. possesses the World's most powerful military capability.

Because, you know, whilst tanks, fighter-bombers and nuclear weapons frighten other Human Beings: they don't faze Mother Nature one bit.

Indeed, at this stage, I would imagine that Mother Nature is really starting to wonder if continuing with this whole Experiment with Higher Intelligence is worth the aggravation.

And whilst USAmericans can believe that they are shielded by a near-indomitable Military Capability (if you don't count the anomalous irregular forces in Afghanistan, Syria, Viet Nam, Korea &c. who might beg to differ... Oh, and the Russians who possess enough nuclear warheads to utterly overwhelm any "Missile Defence [sic] Systems" the U.S. is ALMOST at the point of perfecting...)...

...The fact is that if Mother Nature feels so-inclined, She can eliminate the United States of America as a functioning entity with just a [url=https://www.vox.com/2014/9/5/6108169/yellowstone-supervolcano-eruption]single one of the many weapons in Her armoury.[/url]

But leaving aside an unnecessary distraction around "Mother Nature's" capacity for (philosophical) Agency, the Reality is that we Human Beings don't appear to NEED Mother Nature to act to wipe us out: we seem both capable and hell-bent on doing it ourselves.

Probably... You know... If you listen to your scientists rather than your gut.

Now if "money" is the cancer that is eating away at Human Society, then Nationalism is the radiation that is causing that "cancer" to metastasize and spread.

Whoever it was that said, "The Love of money is the root of all evil" (I think it might have been Paul the Apostle/Saul of Tarsus), appears to have been bang on the, uh, money....

Think about it:

What causes one nation to covet the territory and resources of another? Money.

Why is almost [url=https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2013/jan/10/half-world-food-waste]half of the food produced for human consumption every day thrown away[/url]? Money.

Why do so many human beings continue to suffer from easily treatable medical conditions? Money.

That's three of the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse right there! And let's face it, the Fourth Horseman relies *HEAVILY* on the other three to keep him busy.

And why does so much Human Activity produce so much pollution? Money.

And what is the one thing that very, very, VERY few of us manage to get through a whole day without worrying about?

Money.

I think I can see what St. Paul may have been talking about now.

And yet, money is just a mechanism that we humans have come up with as a means of keeping score.

Not in itself too problematic when it is just neighbours involved in a "Who's-Got-The-Nicest-Car-On-Their-Drive" race...

...But when Nations use it to fuel their obsession with out-competing each other, that takes it to a whole new level.

The superficiality with which Nationalist politicians and governments pay lip-service to whatever religion they think potential voters would prefer to identify them with, is fully exposed when their covetousness of their neighbours' oxen and oil-fields causes them to break at least three of the Ten Abrahamic Commandments.

Leading to destruction on a scale that I guess only a Bronze-Age Deity could have foreseen.

So money HAS to go. For sure.

But without money to keep score, a World that perceptually shrinks further every day, and new generations of Humans growing up using an Internet-Without-Borders...

...Is there any Future for (or with) Nationalism?

I don't see it.

Stephen Winspear lives in the UK and has been trying to Change the System from Within the City of London Banking Sector for 25 years. He can be contacted at: stephen@1person.com