[quote=Foota21178388][quote=Holyman2012][color=blue]It's a seriously fucked up culture that believes that such a basic human need should only be given if there is a profit to be made.[/color][/quote]

[color=red]Those evil "profits" are what motivates us apes Holyman.  It is just a basic human nature thing.[/color][/quote]

That statement says an awful lot about you Foota.

For starters, it's not true.

And by that, I mean you don't believe it. Not personally.

I've known you through these forums for quite a while now, and I think I've got a pretty good measure of you. I just don't believe that you are the kind of person who would only help another person if you could see a material profit it in for you.

Just to clarify: I don't mean "help" as in, helping me to own a Ferrari, or helping me to live in a fantastically over-sized mansion. If you did "help" me in those pursuits, then you would (and should) only be motivated by your own desire for a material profit.

But if I knocked on your door one day with a shotgun wound, you would help me, in any way you could, just for the sheer humanity of the act; not because there was a chance you might gain materially out of it.

The desire for a material profit might well be what motivates us to innovate, to create luxury goods, or to provide someone with some form of superlative service. Can't argue with that. But when it comes to helping other human beings in need, actually, we are genetically disposed to doing that at our most base level.

I'm not saying that everyone does it, automatically, without thinking. Some people have had their basic humanity cauterised by their upbringing, lifestyle, and cultural indoctrination.

But I don't think you are one of those people, are you Foota?

Think about the "Ultimate Sacrifice": laying your life down for another. Soldiers fight for many reasons: patriotism; a sense of moral duty; an ideal about freedom. But generally speaking, when you talk to a soldier, the reason they give for fighting is the guy next to him. His squad mates. His fellow human beings.

Only a handful of soldiers become mercenaries. And Society has a particular view about soldiers that fight for money that doesn't sit well with everyone. By and large, the "noble and heroic" soldier fights for things entirely unconnected with material gain.

Soldiers certainly don't get paid very well, do they?

So I reject your contention that profit is all that motivates us apes.

Sure, we all like status, we all like the recognition and admiration of our peers, and we certainly all like safety, security and opportunity. And if we consider that material profit is the *ONLY* way to achieve those situations, then likely as not, we won't do anything unless there is a buck or two in it for us.

But that sort of behaviour or motivation doesn't make us very popular, or considered to be a valuable member of Society.

And above all else: we are Social animals.

[face_peace]