The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation was created in 1949, as a mutual defence alliance between Western Europe (of which at the time the UK was the most militarily important) and the United States, guarding against aggression from the Soviet Union and Warsaw Pact countries of Eastern Europe.

Forty years after NATO was formed, the Berlin Wall fell, and the Soviet Union collapsed.

At that point, NATO should logically have been wound up: job done.

However, with hardly anyone noticing, NATO evolved into an arm of U.S. policy, and also into an outlet for Tony Blair's "Humanitarian Interventionism".

How and why did that happen?

How, for instance, is Afghanistan part of the North Atlantic area?

Why deploy NATO forces for "Humanitarian Interventionism", when U.N. forces are available to do same - where it can be demonstrated that military intervention will actually save lives, rather than increase death, suffering and destruction, as NATO intervention in the Balkans did at the end of the 20th Century.

The only reason NATO continues to exist, is that it serves as a subtle device for the United States to project its military power into Eurasia, without being labelled an Imperial Power.

NATO was and is a military alliance, not a social or political one. The idea that expanding NATO membership to Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria, the Baltic States, Georgia and Ukraine is an attempt to bring these former Soviet-Bloc countries "In from the Cold" (Communist/Totalitarian/Stalinist/Whatever) of social deprivation, is complete propaganda, swallowed only by Americans.

The expansion of the European Union to include these states is what is bringing and has brought about social and political evolution in these countries. And at some not-inconsiderable expense and inconvenience for Western Europeans who have (not-always-graciously, but without any vigilante "Minutemen" Patrols) integrated Poles, Lithuanians and Bulgarians into the European Free Market.

Again: NATO is a [b]*MILITARY*[/b] alliance.

Whatever we might feel about Russian politics or brutality, you don't have to be a Russian Nationalist to realise that Russia has legitimate security concerns and national interests.

Unlike the United States, post-Soviet Russia hasn't invaded any other countries, or launched illegal and murderous occupations of mineral-rich Middle Eastern countries. It has instead faced down its own internal demons, in the shape of the "Oligarchs", and is now re-emerging as a mineral-rich country in its own right, keen to play a strong role in the shifting global economic sands.

The U.S. can't stand the thought of a country like Venezuela, or any other in Latin America, shifting its "allegiance" (subservience) away from the United States. U.S. military and intelligence agencies are still dotted around South America, hoping to shore up its dwindling "Hemispherical Influence".

How would the United States have responded if Mexico had joined the "Warsaw Pact"? Or if Cuba had adopted Communism and fallen under the Soviet sphere of influence..? (Oh.)

The reason other "NATO" countries are disinclined to join the U.S. (or its British client state) on its military adventures, is because they rarely, if ever, are susceptible to the manufactured threats the U.S. presents.

The U.S. backed the current Georgian President in the coup that brought him to power. The U.S. then trained and supplied the Georgian military, and advocated for Georgian membership of NATO. That membership application was thwarted by European countries like Germany who are major trading partners of Russia, and see no reason or sense to militarily antagonise a non-expansionist Russian Bear.

Given the recent visits to Georgia by the U.S. Secretary of State, and the pronouncements of the U.S. President over this affair, [b]*AND*[/b] the presence of large numbers of U.S. military advisors in Georgia: it is highly improbable that the U.S. Government was not aware that the Georgian President was planning to attack South Ossetia when he did.

If we must stop short of accusing the U.S. of actually ordering the attack, then we can at least question why the U.S. did not halt the plans and preparations for attack that it must have been aware of.

And the only response to that question is that it serves America's national and geo-political self-interest to ignite conflict between Russia and Georgia. Just as those same interests are served by the expansion of the NATO military "alliance", right up to Russia's borders.

Other NATO members do not contribute to U.S. military initiatives, because unlike the UK, other NATO countries' populations will not allow their governments to use them to support American Imperial ambitions.

If NATO still has any relevance, then it is as a mutual defence pact. When a NATO member is clearly threatened militarily, by an external force, then other NATO members will rally to its defence.

The conflicts in the Balkans, Afghanistan and Iraq were and are outside of the North Atlantic Treaty area. They did not warrant or command a NATO response under the terms of the NATO treaty.

That the U.S. seeks to expand NATO membership to try to include countries that likely [b]*WOULD*[/b] come under a military threat by an external force (like any country that borders Russia for instance), as a way of mobilising all NATO countries behind U.S. policy, is a transparent and obvious ploy that all independent NATO members can clearly see through.

So it won't ever happen. And if the U.S. continues on its course, there is a very good chance that NATO will finally be wound up and dismantled.

As it should have been twenty years ago, when it had served its purpose.

Peace