[quote=ManusJustus][color=green]There is no health benefit from religion or a belief in an afterlife.  This is a proven fact, and what they teach in medical school.  [b]Still, doctors will gladly allow religion into the situation because it can help the patient and the family cope with hardship.[/b]  Likewise, you cant give up or 'fight' cancer, but doctors still tell patients and family to fight because it makes them more optimistic and better able to cope with hardship.[/color][/quote]

I think you made the salient point up there in bold Manus.

A calmer, less frightened, more relaxed patient is easier to treat and more receptive to medication than a freaked-out, terrified, panicked patient who believes "THIS IS IT!!! IT'S ALL OVER FOR ME!!!"

So there is a health benefit in Faith, inasmuch as a more peaceful and relaxed patient is easier to treat than an agitated and stressed patient.

Of course, we're not dealing in binary alternatives here. I'm not suggesting that there is anything beneficial about a patient refusing some kinds of medical treatment because the Flying Spaghetti Monster has written that such treatment is sinful... &c. But I am saying that you shouldn't dismiss the medical positives of having a patient with a soothed and peaceful soul.

I suppose it is a bit like any tradesperson or engineer doing his or her job: you want the customer to be relaxed and confident, so that you can get on with fixing the car/boiler/computer or whatever, without them agitating at you every five seconds, demanding to know whether their machine is going to pull through, or whether they need to start organising a replacement.

The physical body is undoubtedly the "vehicle" that doctors and medical professionals are highly skilled in fixing; but if the "Soul" on-board that vehicle is "panicking", it is going to make the job 10 times harder.

And not every medical procedure allows for the patient to be knocked unconscious with a sedative...

I think also it is worth remembering that anyone who is religious in anyway, believes in Life After Death. Anyone with a Faith in Eastern Philosophies like Buddhism and Taoism, believes in Reincarnation, as do Hindus. Throw in the Spiritual Mob, and I believe the figure is something like 90% of the Human population believes that mortal death is not The End.

A medical professional will need to focus their time, energy and talent on curing the physical body of the patient. Wasting any of that time on trying to disabuse their patient of the notion that the Human Soul survives [i]post mortem[/i], really isn't the best use of their talents. Like you said Manus, better, I would think, to allow them to keep their unscientific delusions, if it brings them comfort.

After all, it was Karl Marx who described Religion as the "Opiate of the Masses": it's probably less hazardous than morphine; and probably isn't excluded on anyone's medical insurance policy.

But here's the thing Manus.

I have *HAD* a Near Death Experience. A more lucid-than-lucid Experience of an Existence profoundly more positive and enlightened than anything I've experienced in my mortal life.

However...

I also accept that maybe, just maybe, everything I Experienced *WAS* just the result of my brains carrying out some last-minute, DEFCON-style activity, solely in order to ease my passage through the End of My Life. There are a gazillion things we don't understand about the human brain, and maybe, creating an overwhelming sense of Love and Peace, and the hyper-lucid perception of a profoundly more plausible Reality than this one, *IS* just the result of the brain dumping all of its most "Feel Good" hormones into the System, before the Black-Out.

And then it is just that: Black Out.

I accept that as a possibility Manus, I really do, despite the experiential evidence of my own NDE.

But accepting that possibility, I came to a resolution many years ago, and haven't seen fit to change it since.

My resolution was that if Life really does end with the body, and our conscious identities dissolve into Oblivion, and that is all there is to it, then there can be no harm in my continuing to believe, and live my Life as though there *IS* something more profound and beautiful to follow this Life.

If my Life ends in Oblivion, then I'm not going to be around to feel foolish or embarrassed, because I duped myself into believing in something that wasn't True.

And that will be all there is to it.

However, if on the other hand, what I experienced in my own NDE, and the testimonies I have heard from 1,000's of other NDE'rs is True; and/or the various interpretations of a [i]post mortem[/i] Existence we hear filtered through different Religions and Philosophies contain a grain of Truth...

Well, I'm going to feel pretty silly, when I wake up after my Death, and realise that the Oblivion I expected doesn't appear to be forthcoming.

That Resolution just struck me as a No-Lose Situation.

If nothing else, it keeps me calm and sane, and perhaps above all else, means that I absolutely, genuinely and sincerely, have no Fear of Death (mine or anyone else's) whatsoever.

And I really can Live With That. :)

[face_peace]