At the beginning of this decade, I was fortunate enough to read a book called "Netocracy", written by a couple of far too intelligent Swedish chaps: Alexander Bard and Jan Sӧderqvist.

The English edition of the book is still available on the Amazon (.uk) Marketplace, and presumably at other resellers on the 'Net.

http://www.amazon.co.uk/Netocracy-Power-Elite-after-Capitalism/dp/1903684293/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1/026-7312566-6513252?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1193834936&sr=8-1

Anyhoo, the Holybike has been in dry-dock these last couple of weeks, having his 10 year rebuild, and so I've been reduced to using mass transit in the form of the London Underground. One of the upsides to this is that I've been making good progress through my stack of "Things-to-be-Read". So much so that by this morning I'd run out of new material, and turned to my Library to grab something I'd read before.

And I picked up "Netocracy".

Now going under the 'Net sobriquet of Holyman, means I often meet correspondents who imagine that I'm going to throw the Bible or some other religious scripture in their faces. Of course, anyone who gets to know me soon realises the clever-dick-post-modern-self-irony inherent in my Handle, and understands that I'm almost professionally irreligious.

However, if there was ever a single book about Life, the Earth, and Every Human that I [b]*WOULD*[/b] recommend to anyone in the 21st Century, it would be "Netocracy".

Mostly because it concerns itself with contemporary things, and doesn't contain an ounce of moral judgement anywhere in its pages.

But there you go.

The reason for this thread is not really to promote a seven year old book, but because when I read the introduction (again) this morning on the Tube, I realised how relevant it still was: to our Community here; and to Human Life in the 21st Century.

The passage form the introduction to "Netocracy" I quote here is not aimed at anyone specifically, but describes a dynamic that affects us all: yay, even unto myself..!

Anyway, I hope this passage gives you a flavour of what the book is about; and that reading it might encourage you to get hold of a copy of the book.

Peace

[quote]There is a popular story that tells how a Japanese soldier was found several decades after the end of the Second World War in an inaccessible part of the Asian jungle, where he had single-handedly carried on fighting on a small scale all those years. As a result of a combination of circumstances he had been left there alone. Perhaps he had been ordered to remain at his isolated post and had been exercising his duries to the Fatherland with exemplary loyalty for all those years; or perhaps he had simply been too frightened to venture into populated areas. But time had passed and no one had told him that Peace had been declared. So the Second World War was still raging inside his head.

We have no reason to laugh at this confused soldier. He may have been wrong, but then so have we, countless times. The soldier was not particularly well informed, but then nor are we always. We all suffer to some extent from confused perceptions of what is going on outside that small part of our immediate world of which we can get a direct impression. This does not prevent us from forming, and being forced to form, opinions about one thing after another, even in complicated matters where our knowledge is limited to say the least. [b]Most of what we believe that we know is precisely that: what we believe ourselves to know. Other people's actions are comprehensible to us only in so far as we actually know what they in turn believe themselves to know. Which is something we seldom know.**[/b] The constant inadequacy of this information means that we have to swim through an ocean of misunderstanding on a daily basis - an activity which is both demanding and costly.

[b]Like the Japanese soldier, we form our lives inside our heads. We have to, because the World is far too large and complicated for us to open ourselves to its every aspect without protecting ourselves with a multi-layered mental filter. For this reason we create fictions for ourselves and a variety of simplified models of how we believe the World works, or how we think it ought to work.**[/b] These fictions have to fill the immense empty-spaces between our limited areas of knowledge. It is within this World of private fictions that we think and feel; but it is outside in the collective reality that our actions have their consequences. The more complicated a situation, the higher the degree of guesswork and the greater the contribution of fiction to our perception of reality.

This dependence upon fictions often has dramatic consequences, not just for us personally, but for Society as a whole. Like the Japanese soldier, we are fumbling blindly through dark forests. We react to signals that we can only partially understand, the consequences of which are only partially visible to us. Important political decisions are based upon shaky foundations and often have completely different results from those that were foreseen; great weight is placed on diffuse expressions of opinion, most often in the form of general elections; which are in turn the result of minimal knowledge - a problem which has been discussed, amongst others, by the author and journalist Walter Lippman in a couple of perceptive and intelligent books.

This increasing lack of an overview explains, for instance, why the voters of today find it easier to understand the credit-card fiascos and alcohol abuse ([b]and sexual misdemeanours! - H.[/b]) of individual politicians, than serious political issues. Symbolism becomes attractive when real problems are perceived as being far too complicated. The business world is constantly forced to redefine its prognoses and adjust its decisions retrospectively, in order to conceal the fact that they were based upon fictional rather than factual conceptions, as a result of the perpetual and chronic lack of relevant information.

[b]Becoming informed is an attempt to synchronise your own head with the reality outside. There is a good reason to make the effort: it is easier to interact with your surroundings when you have a relatively correct understanding of its mechanisms.**[/b] Someone who has educated themselves in the psychology of the stock market has better prospects of succeeding in the markets; someone who has educated themselves in their own and other people's inner needs has better prospects of succeeding in relationships, and so on. Every failure reveals that we were not as well informed as we thought or had hoped. The discrepancy between our own and other people's perception of reality, and between our own fictions and actual reality, was far too great. We learn from our mistakes: we take account of our earlier failures as we move into the future and adjust our behaviour accordingly. To put it another way, we make use of information.

Fictions can be more or less truthful, more or less applicable. They come in all possible forms, from private hallucinations to scientific theories. We are constantly testing them. Our culture consists of a perpetual evaluation and combination of both seemingly promising fictions, and already proven fictions. The relationship between the fictions in our heads and unaccommodating realities is a recurrent theme in literature. Don Quixote, Othello, Raskolnikov and Emma Bovary are all victims of their own feverish ignorance. They are all relatives of the Japanese soldier.

[b]In attempting to study and gain an impression of the World around us we have to learn to differentiate between our prejudices - simplified models that we use, not because they reflect empirical evidence, but because they appeal to our own personal interests - and factual analyses and prognoses - necessary and intelligent simplified models of reality that make reality comprehensible to us, even if the results do not appeal to us or fit in with our cherished fictions.**[/b][/quote]

[b] ** - Holyman's Emphases[/b]