[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]Despite your many complaints against America, you have to admit we are the most "dynamic" in terms of not accepting the status quo and believing we can make change.

You often accuse America of being the "Biggest Threat to the Planet".  Is that because you think we will nuke every country, or because we will blunder our way overturning the old "order" in places like the Middle East causing changes in our "comfortable lives" and cause us to think in new ways?

I don't think that any fair assessment of neoconservatism can be argued that we are trying to "preserve the status quo".  [/color] [/quote]

You just keep getting better and better, don't you Foota? ;)

I'm not sure if you are aware or not, but the premise of the Project for a New American Century is this:

Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, the United States of America finds itself the World's Sole Superpower. The ideal of the Project for a New American Century is to use this sole and unopposed power status, to secure American hegemony and dominance for at least the next 100 years, if not forever.

The status quo is that America is (or rather was) the No.1 Power in the World, and it should use that position to secure that situation for perpetuity.

In other words: maintain the status quo.

Furthermore, the Neo-Conservatives propose using America's military might to maintain that status quo. Using the military to establish and maintain dominance (as opposed to say, the probity and beauty of cultural ideals) is again, nothing new. And ensuring the World stays safe for the current system of (American dominated) Capitalism, is also, maintaining the status quo.

So what about this idea you try to maintain that the United States is carrying out its aggressive foreign policy actions, in order to save Humanity from itself? Well, aside from being palpable bullshit, and being utterly undermined by only applying to resource rich regions of the Human World: this again is nothing new. It is the justification and motivation cited by the British Empire, and the French Empire before it. Even the Roman and Greek Empires considered they were doing a favour to all the People they subjugated to their will.

Anyhoo, here's what "Netocracy" has to say on the subject:

[quote]"Christianity was the religion that was best suited as a guiding instrument for the aristocracy and which therefore succeeded in the Darwinian meme-war between various different belief systems that was conducted during the introductory phase of feudalism. In the same way, a winner gradually crystallised out of the memetic Darwinian war between a mass of possible ideological mutations during the transition from feudalism to capitalism. The new paradigm demanded a new myth, and at its service it had humanism - ready to replace one fictional figure, God, with another, Man. Humanism was perfectly suited to the new circumstances and became the perfect guiding instrument for the bourgeoisie, which now had to try to hold down the new underclass of capitalist society: the workers.

Like Christianity before it, humanism was a faith that presented itself as "The Truth of the New Age". Because God was no longer current, or, at least, not as unquestioned as before, Man was now at the apex of the value hierarchy, as holy as God had once been. Language - the capacity of the human species to think and express itself verbally, now magically accessible in mass-produced publications - was the starting point for a new, fictional structure where Man, as a result of this ability, was raised above and was of higher value than beasts. But humans were not born Man - because that would mean that humanism was an extremely poor instrument of power - but had to be educated and shaped over a long period, involving a great deal of effort, in order to reach the goal. For safety's sake, this was made a lifelong project. The State was appointed as a strict overseer, and the Market as the immutable yardstick.

This is the explanation for the creation of such phenomena as hospitals, prisons and education establishments, as well as various political and academic institutions; their purpose was to define Man, and to correct undesirable deviations from the ideal "natural" state within the population. Capitalism has shown a sensational capacity for innovation in its constant production of new sicknesses, crimes and other defects among the citizens of its society, all of which require care and attention. The system has been so practically instituted that each new innovation creates a new market for therapists in white coats and other experts, thereby granting them increased power. The perfect citizen has been one who has motivated him or herself to strive to imitate the ever more diffuse and unattainable ideal of Man; one who has been obsessed by the notion of living correctly, in accordance with the advice of experts. All this aims to create a maximally effective producer during working hours and an insatiable consumer during leisure time; a citizen who gratefully spends every waking hour of the day on the constantly spinning hamster's wheel of Capitalism.

Just as independently minded individuals from the underclass were rendered harmless during the feudal era by being occupied with eternal theological questions in monasteries, the gifted children of the working class were placed behind school desks, where their future was staked out by and within the social sciences. The entire project reached its culmination during the Late Capitalist period of the twentieth century, with the newly hatched idea of necessary "self-realisation", which led humanism into its final extreme phase, where every individual citizen was encouraged to become his or her own all-seeing moral policeman. With this, the supreme ideology of Capitalism reached its climax. This explains why the bourgeoisie has defended Holy Humanism with such frenetic fervour against all attacks, real and imagined, and why it has been raised up as an eternal axiom, a religion. Almost every political party, from the Republicans in the USA to the East German Communist Party, has identified itself as Humanist.

It's the same old story: getting the ideology that legitimises power to appear "Natural". It's simply a question of the bourgeoisie's own position as the dominant class of Capitalist Society and how this is connected to Humanism's position as the supreme ideology. In this light, Capitalist Society does not look like democracy in any real sense, but a Humanist Dictatorship.

The bourgeoisie sought what every dominant elite seeks: social stability - the undisturbed exercising of power and a social climate that is downright hostile to any imaginable alternative centre of power. In the same way as the aristocracy long before had sought to maintain the status quo, the new dominant class tried to create a closed social system and, just as feudalism managed to absorb its own inherent contradictions, the immense tensions within Capitalist Society never posed any real threat to the hierarchy of power. It was only when the fundamental technological preconditions of Capitalism underwent dramatic change that anything seriously affected it. It was time for another paradigm shift."[/quote]

Oh yes, definitely Time for another Change. :)

Peace