Nichols Christmas Luncheon

14th December 2007

Table Quiz

GEOGRAPHY

Which Antarctic explorer said in 1912:"I am just going outside and may be some time."

Which 15th Century explorer, began the journal of his travels with:"Following the light of the sun, we left the Old World."

Which 20th Century mountaineer wrote:"People do not decide to become extraordinary. They decide to accomplish extraordinary things."

Which 18th Century European explorer, and discoverer of Australia, said:"Do just once what others say you can't do, and you will never pay attention to their limitations again."

Which 20th Century marine explorer and naturalist said:"The sea, the great unifier, is man's only hope. Now, as never before, the old phrase has a literal meaning: we are all in the same boat."

ENTERTAINMENT

Which pop group reached number 1 at Christmas in 1965, singing:"Try to see it my way, only time will tell if I am right or I am wrong;While you see it your way, there's a chance that we might fall apart before too long"

Which pop group reached number 1 at Christmas in 1983, singing:"Sometimes when I think of your name, when it's only a game, and I need you;Listen to the words that you say, it's getting harder to stay, when I see you."

Which pop group reached number 1 at Christmas in 1987, singing:"Tell me, tell me that your sweet love hasn't died;Give me, one more chance to keep you satisfied, satisfied."

Which pop group reached number 1 at Christmas 1994, singing:"Don't you know we've come too far now, just to go and try to throw it all away;Thought I heard you say you love me, that your love was gonna be here to stay."

Which pop group reached number 1 at Christmas in 2002, singing:"Disco dancing with the lights down low, beats are pumping on the stereo,Neighbours banging on the bathroom wall, They saying crank the bass, I gotta get some more."

HISTORY

Which 20th Century Statesman and Nationalist Leader said:"Be the change you want to see in the World"

Which 20th Century American President said:"It is amazing what you can accomplish, if you do not care who gets the credit."

Which 20th Century African Leader said:"There is nothing like returning to a place that remains unchanged, to find the ways in which you yourself have altered."

Which author wrote, during World War Two:"The best remedy for those who are afraid, lonely or unhappy, is to go outside, somewhere where they can be quiet, alone with the heavens, nature and God. Because only then does one feel that all is as it should be, and that God wishes to see people happy, amidst the simple beauty of nature."

Which 20th Century British Prime Minister said:"The pessimist sees difficulty in every opportunity. The optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty."

SCIENCE AND NATURE

Which 19th Century rail, bridge and ship builder said:"I am opposed to the laying down of rules or conditions to be observed in the construction of bridges; lest the progress of improvement tomorrow might be embarrassed or shackled by recording or registering as law, the prejudices or errors of today."

Which 19th Century American Inventor said:"Being busy does not always mean real work. The object of all work is production or accomplishment; and to either of these ends, there must be forethought, system, planning, intelligence, and honest purpose, as well as perspiration. Seeming to do is not doing."

Which 19th Century Naturalist wrote:"Ignorance more frequently begets confidence than does knowledge: it is those who know little, and not those who know much, who so positively assert that this or that problem will never be solved by science."

Which dyslexic scientist of the 20th Century said:"I am enough of an artist to draw freely upon my imagination. Imagination is more important than knowledge. Knowledge is limited. Imagination encircles the World."

Which 20th Century Physicist and leader of "The Manhattan Project" said:"There are children playing in the streets who could solve some of my top problems in physics, because they have modes of sensory perception that I lost long ago."

ART AND LITERATURE

Which deaf and blind American author said:"To keep our faces toward change and behave like free spirits in the presence of fate, is strength undefeatable."

Which British Science Fiction author wrote:"Human beings, who are almost unique in having the ability to learn from the experience of others, are also remarkable for their apparent disinclination to do so."

Which Irish playwright is the only person to have won both a Nobel Prize and an Oscar, and wrote:"Some men see things the way they are and ask, 'Why?'; I dream things that never were, and ask 'Why not'?"

Which Classical Greek philosopher and student of Socrates wrote:"Wise men speak because they have something to say; fools because they have to say something."

Which Spanish painter and sculptor said:"I am always doing things I can't do; that's how I get to do them."

SPORT AND LEISURE

Which 20th Century World Heavyweight Boxing Champion said:"It's the repetition of affirmations that leads to belief. And once that belief becomes a deep conviction, things begin to happen."

Which South African and Great Britain distance runner said in 1984:"I found them uncomfortable and after that I decided to continue running barefoot because I found it more comfortable. I felt more in touch with what was happening - I could actually feel the track."

Which male American tennis player said:"Bjorn was a different breed, I threw my best material at him, but he would never smile, but that added to the charm when he played me and Mac. We were going nuts and losing our mind and he was sitting back like he was on a Sunday stroll."

Which former British television sports presenter said:"Infinite love is the only truth. Everything else is illusion."

Which 20th Century American athlete said:"Although I wasn't invited to shake hands with Hitler, I wasn't invited to the White House to shake hands with the President either."