It's always difficult to have an intelligent discourse about topics like these, when you have to engage with those of a Manichean disposition...

Complex World is complex.

It is clearly preposterous to reduce critical and complex geo-political situations down to simplistic notions of "Good v. Evil", or "Right v. Wrong". That's what the guy who wrote the article I posted was talking about:

[quote] The corporate media reduces the DPRK (North Korea) to the Kim family and prefaces their names with the terms "madman", "evil" and "brutal". Such vilifications of foreign leaders are used here not only to signify they are target for US overthrow. They are meant to intimidate and isolate anti-war activists as being out in left field for ever wanting to oppose a war against countries ruled by "madmen" - be they Saddam, Fidel, Hugo Chavez, Ahmadinejad, Qaddaffi.[/quote]

It is childish. It is nonsense.

Having once framed situations into straight-up Good v. Evil confrontations, any attempt to understand the underlying causes - which is absolutely essential for developing a lasting solution to the problem - is demonised as siding with "them". This was never clearer than when George W. Bush pronounced, "You are either with us, or against us."

Of course there is no defending the actions and policies of the current and previous North Korean governments. Of course they are ideological nutters, so intent on holding onto power that they behave in a way that brings untold suffering and misery to their citizens. And of course threats of inter-national violence - particularly nuclear violence - have no place in the Modern World and should not be tolerated by a World Community that desires Peace.

But that much is a given.

It goes without saying.

And yet, there are those who support the American government's policies of inter-national violence. Who suggest that the U.S. government's nuclear-tipped threats against Iran and North Korea are, in fact, not vigorous enough; and who quite happily support the U.S. government's social and economic policies, even as those policies bring unnecessary hardship to them and their fellow Americans.

And it these same people who point the finger, exclaim loudly at and criticise the behaviour of the North Korean Government.

Oh, if pressed, they'll respond, "What?!? Are you saying the U.S. Government is as bad as the North Korean Government?!?"

No.

It's worse. Far worse.

In 70 years, the North Korean Government has done no worse than attempt to do what Abraham Lincoln's Government did in 1860: reunite a country that had fractured on ideological lines. But most of that action took place 60 years ago.

In the meantime, the North Korean Government has remained permanently militarised, primarily as a result of the Cold War that was playing out all around it until 1990; and subsequently because it hasn't got any real idea about how to behave any differently.

The North Korean Government hasn't invaded any other countries in 60 years, mostly because it is a minnow swimming next to Russian, Chinese and American sharks: who or where could it invade?

North Korea hasn't claimed it was spreading "Peace and Democracy" by invading any nations in Indochina or the resource-rich Middle East. It hasn't funded the overthrow of democratically elected governments in South America, Africa or South-East Asia. And of course, it doesn't possess anything like the kind of nuclear arsenal that the United States has.

Oh, but what about the Social and Economic policies of the North Korean Government that have led to the deaths of millions of its own citizens through famine and disease?

Well yes, that is terrible. It is really bad. Criminal.

But by that token, the Social and Economic policies of the United States' Government must therefore be considered genocidal.

At home, more than 40 million Americans live below the Poverty Line. They have terrible diets that lead to morbid obesity, diabetes and heart disease. Unlike the citizens of North Korea, these 40 million Americans have no access to secondary healthcare. They are simply too poor, too un-regarded and too uneducated for the U.S. Government to feel it has any responsibility towards them: so they are just left to die. Slowly.

And abroad - and you know, the U.S. Government does like to consider itself some sort of World Leader; happy to invade countries where "Freedom and Democracy" are threatened - what about all of the millions and millions of people who die because of U.S. Trade policies? What about all of the Africans who die in regular famines, because it is just not economically viable for their government to use land to grow food crops?

And what about the U.S. Government's position that it is better to preserve and protect the indefensibly high profits of the Pharmaceutical Industry, than it is to allow cheap anti-HIV and anti-malarial medication to reach those humans in Africa and elsewhere, whose lives would *REALLY* profit from access to that medicine?

North Korea is bad, m'kay.

But having the U.S. Government and certain Americans pointing hysterical fingers at that nation, trying to warn us all of the dangers it poses; is entirely like having a machine-gun wielding sociopath, dripping in blood and gore, shouting and complaining loudly about the fact that there is a child throwing stones that could hurt somebody.

Oh, shit, yes, thanks... Best watch out, hadn't we... Don't want to get hurt, do we...

:>_