ON WAR AND RELIGION

So, just to be clear: Religion has never started or continued *ANY* Wars.

Nor has any ideology come to that: not socialism, not communism, not even (and I know you'll find this one hard to believe) capitalism.

What HAS started just about every War in the History of Humanity is just one thing:

Man's unquenchable thirst for total power and dominion.

Now, when it comes to the prosecution of War, those individual men hell bent on trying to achieve total power, have ALWAYS needed other men (and occasionally women and children) to do the fighting for them. Telling someone that you want them to fight and possibly die for you, because YOU personally crave total power and dominion, does not a large or effective army recruit.

But convince them that you need them to fight for God, or Country, or Morality, or Ideology, or all of the above, and they will queue up to fight and die for you.

Religion *IS* the easiest ideology to use as the basis for getting other people to fight for you, since it is so vague and intangible, interpretations of "Holy" scripture can easily be used or "spun" to support your position.

The Crusades

When Pope Urban II answered the Byzantine Emperor Alexius I's call for assistance in re-taking the "Holy Land", he saw an opportunity to gain an advantage in the power struggle that had been playing out between Rome and Byzantium, ever since the collapse of the unified Roman Empire. Pope Urban saw the first "Crusade" as an opportunity to reunite the Western and Eastern Christian Churches (under Western control, naturally), and to advance the already super-powerful status of the Vatican in Europe and the Asia Minor.

The key to recruitment for the Crusades, was the Papal Bull that gave "Christian" Knights the opportunity to slake their blood-thirst, without imperilling their mortal souls. Pope Urban decreed that to kill a Muslim was not only not a sin against God, it was the pious duty of all good Christians.

This was nothing to do with the teachings of Christ, and everything to do with medieval power-politics.

The Spanish Inquisition

The Spanish Inquisition was not a Religious Institution; rather it was an extension of the Spanish Superpower of Ferdinand and Isabella. Pope Sixtus only "authorised" the Spanish Inquisition (separate and distinct from the Papal Inquisitions), because Ferdinand threatened to withdraw the Spanish military protection that was helping to keep the Ottoman Turks from invading and conquering Italy and Rome itself.

The purpose of the Spanish Inquisition wasn't to eradicate Judaism or Islam or Christian heresy in Spain; its "purpose" was the same as its function - to police the thoughts of those in Spain who may have undermined or rebelled against Ferdinand and Isabella's autocratic rule.

The Spanish Navy and Army took care of Spain's foreign enemies and expanded Spain's Imperial Territory; the Spanish Inquisition made sure that there were no internal/domestic threats to Spain's dominance.

Spain's arch-rival at the other end of the Mediterranean was the Islamic Ottoman Turkish Empire. Spain had also just conquered territory in the south of the Iberian Peninsular from the Islamic Moors. Muslims were expelled from Spain or executed, for the same reason that Japanese-Americans were interred in the US during World War Two.

It was the same for Spain's Jewish people, who were treated no differently to Muslims by the Inquisition. And it was worse for those Jews who had converted to Catholic Christianity (in the hope of staving off persecution), and ended up being mistrusted by both Spaniards and Jews.

NB.1 Spain did not "re-conquer" Southern Spain from the Islamic Moors. Southern Spain had been the home of the Moors for 700 years prior to the Spanish Reconquista. Prior to that, it had been home to the remnants of the North African Carthaginians, and before that, a vassal state of the Roman Empire. "Spain" simply didn't exist before Ferdinand and Isabella of ARAGORN united the (non-Portuguese parts) of the Iberian Peninsula.

NB.2 Jews fleeing persecution from the Spanish Inquisition found safe-haven in Islamic lands in North Africa and the Middle East. In many cases, Spanish Jews were directly rescued and transported to safety by Muslims from the Ottoman Empire and Barbary Coast.

ON SECTARIANISM

Are you a Jew, Christian or Muslim?

If you are, then you are a Child of Abraham; if you are not, why do you care how members of THE SAME RELIGION, choose to distinguish themselves from one another?

Judaism, Christianity and Islam ALL WORSHIP THE SAME GOD. That is, they all worship the same anthropomorphised deity, who incidentally, is the personification of God defined monotheistically by Persian/Iranian Zoroastrianism, and imposed on warring Jewish factions in Judea, by the Roman Empire.

Hassidic Jews worship the same God as Shia Muslims; and neither Hassid nor Shi'ite dispute that. What these and every other Abrahamic sect will and do dispute, is how that same God should be obeyed and served. And wouldn't you just know it, most of the disputation is centred around how much of "God's Land" belongs to or was promised to which sect.

Funny that.

Or, of course, there is always the old faithful fall-back, of arguing over what the SAME GOD should be called - 'cos that's what God is REALLY concerned about: what Humans call Him...

YHWH, Jehovah, Allah... These are all... Just names.

What's wrong with Zeus? Or Jupiter? Brahma, Odin, Osiris or Inti?

Different Gods? Different Times? Maybe...

But Humans haven't changed.

What has changed are the allegiances. Nowadays, the conjunction between Jews and Christians is taken as a given, almost immutable fact. There is more expedient collusion and convergence between Jews and Christians ("Judeo-Christians" SJ!?!), than between Catholics and Protestants.

And if Jews can make the leap to commonality with their theosophical descendents - the Jews - why can Christians not make the same leap to communion with their co-religionists, the Muslims?

Of course, look back in History not much more than a couple of centuries, and it was a different picture. From pretty much the Time that the Prophet rode forth from Medina, it was Islam that protected and provided the safest havens for Jews; protecting Jews from, of course, Christians who had been "educated" to believe that Jews were responsible for Christ's death (as well as being intrinsically untrustworthy and despicable).

And when the 20th Century came about, it was still "Christian" Europeans in Russia, Germany, Italy, Spain and Britain who were still persecuting Jewish People; and for the better part, those persecuted Jews continued to find safe-haven in the Islamic Middle East.

Only with the collapse of first Turkish and then British dominion in the Middle East, did the Balance of sectarian strife change in the Middle East. The creation of the Modern Jewish State of Israel, by the guilt-stricken "Christian" West, on newly independent Arab-Islamic territory, did the dynamic shift from Muslims & Jews v. Christians, to Jews & Christians v. Muslims.

At least, as far as the plebs were concerned.

As far as the ruling elites were and are concerned, Temporal matters of territory and mineral resources far outweigh Spiritual matters such as calling God by the right name, and worshipping YHWH/Jehovah/Allah in the right way. But since the plebs are so obsessed with the peril their immortal soul must face, why not get them to think they can make a difference to that "Final Judgement", by "Fighting the Good Fight" here on Earth, before they meet their Maker?

You know, I'm no Jew, Christian or Muslim, so what do I know? But I do find a little too coincidental, the idea that YHWH's promise of a Greater Zion/Israel, and Allah's promise of a Pan-Islamic Caliphate, to the respective Faithfuls, just happens to fit so neatly with many men's ambitions for Earthly power and dominion.

You know, which came first? The All-Powerful Deity's desire for an Earthly territory for His followers; or the genocidal proclivities of power-hungry men?

From an outsider's point of view, it all just smacks of a very subjective interpretation of ambiguous scripture, coupled with very basic and primitive HUMAN greed and lust for power and domination.

And yet, all the while that Religion is used as a smokescreen to morally legitimise the crimes committed by one Abrahamic sect against another, I find my Whole World dominated by the machinations of these people.

But because the conflict and death is apparently "legitimised" by its "Religious" label, we are all under a social imperative to regard and comment on the situation with respect for peoples' "Religions".

Fuck that.

No conflict or War in the History of Humanity has ever been directed by or started at the behest of an intangible (yet apparently definable) and anthropomorphised "God".

When humans fight humans, it is for human reasons; Religion is merely a handy excuse that can be manipulated to justify the most extreme and homicidal of human behaviours.

The religious sensibilities of humans fighting to the death on OUR Planet, should NOT be treated with sensitivity and respect: they should be completely fucking ignored.

Peace