[quote=suckyshot][color=green]The problem is holyman, if N Korea is cut off from supplies, it's not the leadership of the country, the people responsible for turning it into the hole of a country it is now, that will suffer, it's the already bedraggled and borderline mindless people that will.

The country very nearly fell apart once when the Soviet Bloc cut them off, and an estimated 2 million people died from the resulting famine. If that happens again, the government will simply hoard everything for itself, and deprive its citizens like the last time, who will be completely powerless to respond.[/color][/quote]

I can't argue with that 'Shot.

It really raises the issue of how we, as a World Community of Humans, go about trying to bring internal change to countries like North Korea, Myanmar, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and many other nations with appalling records of population oppression and suppression.

I think my original point was in reference to President Obama calling for "The World to stand up [to North Korea]". Actually, the only part of the World that could (and needs to) stand-up to North Korea, is China. If the Rest of the World "Stands up" to NK, and China doesn't, then it won't make any difference; and if just China takes North Korea to task, then the Rest of the World doesn't need to do anything.

And whether it is me saying that China needs to rein in NK, or President Obama saying the World needs to do likewise, it amounts to the same thing: North Korea is wholly dependent and reliant on China, and it is to China that diplomatic pressure needs to be applied.

But like I said, I can't argue with your point about what would happen to the overwhelming majority of the benighted North Korean population.

Saying China should "turn off the fuel-spigot" to NK is really just a turn of phrase. I don't think it is practical or purposeful, for the reasons that you describe.

I actually think that the only real way to resolve the North Korean issue is for China to "invade" North Korea and annex it. This could then pave the way for the eventual reunification of the Korean Peninsula, under the controlling direction of the PRC.

I use the term "invade" advisedly of course. North Korea is as dependent on China for military protection, supplies and training as Iraq is currently dependent on the United States. The Chinese military and intelligence apparatus is sufficiently entrenched within North Korea, to the point where a military takeover of its fellow Communist state could well be a largely peaceful affair.

Contrast this with the prospects of a similar attempt by any other external force - especially the U.S. & NATO - including a United Nations coalition, and it becomes the only logically apparent course of action.

It would, of course, have to be carried out with the full blessing and approval of the United Nations, but I think it would have to be a purely Chinese affair.

North Korea is, these days, largely an embarrassment to the up and coming Chinese State. I would imagine that the Chinese Government are probably at work at this moment, exploring the possibilities of a more discreet way of achieving regime change in Pyongyang. But I don't think that their patience is inexhaustible.

I also think that just as with the Olympic Games, and now their Economic stature, the Chinese are ambitious to show the World that they are a political, cultural, diplomatic, and of course military power to rival the U.S. Being seen to conduct a "Police Action" in North Korea, whilst fully observing the correct protocols of the United Nations, would be a way of proclaiming that the United States is no longer the sole "World's Policeman".

[face_peace]