Ah, the Media...

It's not like them to exaggerate an imminent existential threat to Humanity, now is it..?

Like so many of the "grave threats" posed to the sanctity of the World by "Rogue States" such as Iraq and Iran (though definitely *NOT* the United States...), the actions of North Korea have to be put into the context of that country's [b]INTERNAL[/b] dynamics.

When Kim Il-Jong suffered medical problems (most likely a stroke) at the beginning of the year, the ruling regime of North Korea has been feeling decidedly less stable and secure than it prefers to feel.

One of the main reasons for this is that no clear successor has been nominated or declared by Kim Il-Jong. The most likely candidate is his third (half-Japanese, and possibly illegitimate) son, Kim Jong-un, apparently because he most closely resembles his father, in both his physical and emotional qualities.

But South Korean scholars who specialise in the study of North Korea are suggesting that the ruling North Korean establishment are not inclined to see a continuation of the family dynasty at this point, and O Kuk-ryol, an Army general has been noted as a possible successor.

The positive side (to the North Korean establishment) of maintaining the family dynasty is the existing personality cult that sees both Kim Il-Jong and his father Kim Il-Sung worshipped as deities by most of the North Korean population. The negative side is the erratic and unpredictable behaviour of a "Dear Leader" who genuinely believes he is an absolute despot ruling an entire country, rather than just a figurehead used to lead a personality cult that keeps the population subdued.

Such are the machinations and uncertainties at the moment, within a country used to Stalinist certainties, that the default (and entirely predictable) action is to provoke a Foreign Affairs issue where the Whole World (or just the United States - either is fine) can be presented as threatening North Korean sovereignty and independence. This focuses the attention of the North Korean population and military on its borders, rather than on internal uncertainties.

The key player in all of this is China.

Right now, China is riding high on an economic tide, and has no wish to see its immediate neighbourhood destabilised; and definitely does [b]NOT[/b] want North Korea's actions to bring more U.S. troops into the region.

North Korea is wholly dependent on China for food and fuel.

Both China and Russia have been uncharacteristically sharp in their rebuking of North Korea this week, and the real test will come when China has an opportunity to [b]NOT[/b] use its veto in the U.N. Security Council, when prospective sanctions are raised (within the next week or so).

The Chinese government can rein in the military activities and provocations of North Korea, as readily and easily as the U.S. Government can exert control over the U.K.'s military activities (the relationship dynamic is essentially the same).

No-one in diplomatic circles is really worried about North Korea or its threats, because China could close down the entire country in less than a week, and have Kim Il-Jong kow-towing before the PRC in Tiananmen Square the day after.

But that doesn't mean that the Media can't make a good story out of it.

Particularly now that it looks as though we're not all going to die of Swine Flu...

[face_peace]