[quote="Foota"][quote="Holyman"][color=#0000FF]I have to say, it's mostly the clinging to the idea of American Exceptionalism that gets my goat about Foota and his ilk.[/color][/quote]

[color=#FF0000]And there we have it!  If you could just get over that inferiority complex Holyman, we would get along swell! ; )

Sorry man, but not all cultures and political systems are equal.  Some are rotten (i.e. North Korea) and some are exceptional (i.e. the US and much of the free world).

For good or bad, America has had a massive impact on our planet in the last century despite our small population numbers in terms of economic systems, culture, technological advances, military alliances.........[u]resulting in one of the most peaceful and prosperous times for the vast majority of humanity[/u].  And for that - America *is* exceptional.[/color][/quote]

Well, thanks for reaffirming my point anyway Foota.

It gives us such a wonderfully firm foundation from which to deconstruct the idea of American Exceptionalism.

OK, so let's get our starting point in History straight first, so we know where our and America's current predicament began.

1939. The United States is a second-rate power.

It got close to first-rate status during the 1920's, but then went into an Economic meltdown, which kind of fucked it all up. Great Depressions, Dustbowls, that sort of thing ensued.

Right. Then there was a World War, which the U.S. only belatedly got involved in, when it was finally given no choice but to participate. At the end of that World War, the Rest of the World was completely fucked economically, with most of its industrial and social infrastructure fucked.

That put the United States in a very dominant position, because its own industrial infrastructure was not only unscathed by the World War, it was actually greatly improved, thanks to all of the material "assistance" it had sold to its Allies. World War II enabled the U.S. to industrially develop its way out of the Great Depression; at the same time as it destroyed pretty much any possibility for any other Nation to compete economically with the U.S.

Having arrived at a position of Global Economic and Military dominance, the U.S. then set itself the goal of maintaining that dominant position, for as long as possible.

That's all fine then. Inarguable. You'd have to have a very frail grasp of History to dispute that very brief and potted summary of America's rise to power - the sequence of events that elevated the U.S. to #1 World Power.

Also: I'm not taking up a moral position here. What the U.S. exactly mimicked the British Empire's rise to #1 status. Britain stayed out of the Napoleonic Wars at the beginning of the 19th Century just long enough for the French, Prussians and Austrians to cancel each other out, before leaping in at the end to claim "Final Victory" at Waterloo.

And the Romans wouldn't have become what they did, if Alexander's descendants hadn't undone all of his hard work, through internecine squabbling.

So much is Human Nature. Fine.

The key point however is that absolutely none of this can ever be said to have conferred any kind of moral or civilised superiority on any of the World's #1's, past and present. And yet that is precisely what you are claiming; just as your British counterparts a century ago proclaimed "The White Man's Burden", and self-justified all of their looting and pillaging of relatively defenceless foreign societies.

The real Truth is that there is nothing exceptional about America at all. It just happens to be the latest in a long line of Human Societies - delineated by some abstract geographical divisions, and still in too large-a-part by ethnicity and creed - that having found itself in the #1 position, immediately assumes some form of moral superiority, in order to justify its continued efforts to maintain itself in that position.

Honestly Foota, I can't stress that enough. America today is no different to the British Empire of yesterday, the French Empire of the day before that, the Turkish Empire before that, the Spanish before them...

And so on and so forth back through History, pretty much all the way to the Mesopotamians of Ur.

And every single "Top Dog" power shared exactly the same delusions: that it was somehow exceptional; that it was somehow uniquely blessed by [insert Deity of choice]; that its People and Leaders were superior to other Human Beings...

...And that all of the death, destruction, looting, enslavement, poverty and suffering it forced on the Rest of the World in order to maintain its own position at #1, was entirely justified by their "Exceptional Qualities".

The irony of course being that there is nothing exceptional about any of those things.

It's all been done before a hundred times, and until a #1 Power comes along that does something genuinely and uniquely exceptional - like for instance what the United States *ALMOST* did, when it created the United Nations - it will continue to be done for as long as this Planet is prepared to put up with Human Beings.

Really Foota, nothing exceptional here at all: just depressingly common place behaviour and attitudes.

:>_