In Reply To #66

Creative; but no cigar.

Slowed you down though, didn't it?

And you *MUST* have enjoyed the thrill of typing out all my words, just so you could "EvilFish" them. :)

So just to sum-up your position:

-You acknowledge that the USG is replacing its old and out-dated nuclear weapons with more "efficient" and effective nuclear weapons."

No I do not.  I acknowledge that the USG is CONSIDERING and CONTEMPLATING and RESEARCHING the replacement of old stock with newer, cheaper weapons with a few taking the place of the many.

To say they are in the process of actually REPLACING said weapons would be incorrect at this time.

...

Perhaps in your business you can reduce your inventory and wind up with an INCREASED inventory at the same time; in my world that simply does not happen.

Well, in my World, I can decrease my inventory whilst simultaneously increasing my capability.

What World is it, that you inhabit?

At the end of the day we will have FEWER weapons which is a decreased capability regarding the NUMERICAL existence of our weaponry.

Hee-hee - this is fun!

So, say that if everyone in India, say, was armed with 18th Century smooth-bore muskets (that'd be about 1 billion muskets); and everyone in the United States was armed with state-of-the-art small arm weaponry (that'd be about 300 million rifles, SMG's, SPW's, and assorted heavy machine-guns):

Would that mean that India had a more effective military capability than the US - just because of sheer NUMERICAL superiority?

When you DECREASE your nuclear stockpile, you are NOT expanding it.  Do you understand?  Simply because the weapons we may or MAY NOT build could be more efficient, easier and CHEAPER to maintain, DOES NOT MEAN we are increasing our numerical arsenal.  In fact, it is THE OPPOSITE.

When you TAKE NUMBERS AWAY YOU ARE DECREASING; NOT INCREASING AND EXPANDING.

When you go from 10 to 5 you are not said to be expanding.

What about if you go from 10 x 100 kiloton weapons, to 5 x 1 megaton weapons: would that mean you were DECREASING your arsenal, or INCREASING AND EXPANDING it?

Who said these plans should be "ignored?"  I said they should continue because it is better to have 1,500 RELIABLE weapons than 6,000 questionable weapons.

So, would you say that exchanging 6,000 unreliable weapons for 1,500 RELIABLE weapons, would be increasing or decreasing your capability?

My original point, and verifiable fact, that the major players (USA, Russia, UK) are, in fact, disarming and dismantling, was born out fact based research and not of anything you have said here previously or subsequently.

I don't know how else to say that the dismantling of a nuclear warhead that WILL NOT BE REPLACED is anything but dismantling and disarming.

...

EVERYTHING that involves government spending is earmarked by the Congress.  EVEN SECRETE military toys and operations are approved via the Congress.  There is always SOMEBODY in the loop.

Is the Public always in the loop?

Are YOU always in the loop?

Oh also:

Tell me:

If I throw out 10 of my 15 year old 250 mb IDE hard disk drives, and replace them with 2 new 750 GB SATA hard disk drives:  have I got more, or less hard disk capacity?

Are you equating the hard disk to a nuclear weapon?

I'm describing obsolescence of old and development of new technology, to increase capacity and capability.

Surprised you thought that I think a hard disk drive and a nuclear weapon are the same thing...

My argument is that the US is increasing the capability and effectiveness of its nuclear stockpile, whist indeed, reducing the actual units of out -dated hardware.

Decreasing stock to increase SAVINGS IN MAINTANENCE for a bomb that is basically the same yield as the one it is replacing is NOT an increase in capability but an increase in economics.

But it's not a decrease either, is it?

Which was your original point.

Are you telling me that you know for an absolute fact what non-state terror groups, Russia, and China have in their inventory?

Are you telling me that you know what only a hand full of people on the face of this planet know?

Terrorists do not publish their capabilities on the internet for people to see.

The Russians and Chinese do not post accurate economic data let alone military information regarding what they do or do not have.

This is to be expected because NO intelligent nation ON EARTH has EVER openly and honestly broadcast to the world just what they have in absolute terms and what those toys can do.

You are basing your comments upon the ASSUMPTION of what they have and that is a dangerous assumption to be sure.

So what assumptions are you basing your expert knowledge of the US Nuclear Programme on then?

Seems a bit, uh, incongruous to me that on one hand you favour the USG spending billions on a "defensive" system of limited purpose rather than spending that money on single-payer, non-profit -making provision of Health Care to the American people; and on the other, you criticize the North Korean "Government" for spending money on "Defence", rather than on its people.

No it is not incongruous; you are simply missing and twisting the facts, as usual.

The only facts I'm using, are the fact that you said that America should spend billions on a pointless - alright, limited effectiveness - missile defence system; but not on a single-payer, non-profit making Health Care System. And the fact that you castigated North Korea for spending money on "Defence", rather than on food for its people.

Fourth, if Americans wanted a "Universal" healthcare system, we would have one by now.  Americans know their own government better than you and any American that has ever been at the DMV knows better than to give 1/7th of America's GDP to the hands of one the most inefficient Governments on earth.

So they'd rather give 1/6th of their income to organisations that make huge profits from American's need for Health Care?