In Reply To #12

Call me an idiot, but our society could use a good dieoff. Yeah, I know, you're so fond of us all you capitalize the word "society", but have a look at a line graph of humanity's global population growth over time. It goes up and up and up at an ever-steeper angle each day. Show me any other fucken animal that breeds so relentlessly all over the whole god damned planet, and then maybe I'll consider the uselessness of nukes.

Aw hey, don't confuse my motivation. I'm very fond of Human Society, because it is MY Society. But the individual lives within that Society - particularly those I'm not familiar with - don't automatically earn the same fondness.

I'm not concerned with the survival of specific, individual human beings - my Spirituality means I don't need to be - but I do think it would be a real shame if the Society that so many Humans have put so much effort into, comes to naught.

Now, if somewhere along the way, someone presents me with an even half-way plausible case for culling vast swathes of Humanity, for the greater good and endurance of Human Society as a whole, well I'll volunteer to either cull or be culled. No biggie.

Most animals breed relentlessly, but they do not possess the same facility as human beings to collectively and co-operatively dominate and despoil the ecosystem they are a part of. When rabbits breed to plague proportions, WE cull them. The only animal capable of culling humans, are other humans. And there are all sorts of moral and practical objections to prevent Society adopting or tolerating that practice.

In short then, if I thought that a quick exchange of nuclear weapons would solve ANY of Human Society's many problems, I'd light the fuses.

But it wouldn't, so I won't.

This is a huge fucking planet we live on, with PLENTY of what everyone needs to live to go around. Whilst over-breeding can and does cause social problems, over-crowding or resource depletion and scarcity is not a big problem.

Unequal distribution of those resources - through the economic systems of "ownership" - IS a problem, but probably not the biggest problem for Human Society right now.

Unfortunately, nuking whole areas of population to cull down Human Society's numbers to more manageable levels will have the side-effect of irradiating vast swathes of living space too, so I'm afraid it just isn't practical.

I realise your comments were wholly or partially tongue-in-cheek, but I just wanted to emphasise that my opposition to nuclear weapons is not moral, ethical or Spiritual: but simply practical.

Nuclear weapons serve no useful purpose; they cost a fortune to develop, maintain and secure; and they are frankly too fucking dangerous to have around the place.

Peace