In Reply To #63

That's it EF: if facts are just too contrary to your beliefs, resort to blind denial. :)

Our stocks are declining.... And you say we are failing to dismantle?

That is not blind denial; that is the fact of the situation.

Right.

So just to sum-up your position:

• You acknowledge that the USG is replacing its old and out-dated nuclear weapons with more "efficient" and effective nuclear weapons.

• But because there will be less of the newer, more efficient and effective nuclear weapons, than there were of the older (and less efficient and effective) nuclear weapons: you interpret this as meaning that the US is "reducing" its nuclear arsenal, rather than strengthening and developing it.

• You also acknowledge that the US is PLANNING to build new nuclear weapons; but because it hasn't (to the best of our knowledge) actually begun building new nuclear weapons (in violation of the NNPT and Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty) yet, these plans should be ignored as irrelevant to the point about the US improving and expanding its nuclear stockpile.

• And you also acknowledge that the only reason that the Bush Administration hasn't yet begun building new nuclear weapons (in defiance of the NNPT & CTBT), is because Congress hasn't yet finished finalising the details of the funding for it.

• Also: the Missile Defence Shield is a mega-billion pound project, *NOT* designed to intercept Russian or Chinese ICBM's; but is in fact intended to stop the inter-continental ballistic missiles that will be launched by rogue nations and non-state actors, just as soon as they've got them (and don't worry EF, on current evidence, a few traffic bollards should do the trick).

• Your original point then, that the "Major Players" are continuing to disarm and dismantle their nuclear stockpiles ("albeit slowly"), isn't really born out my anything you and I have discussed subsequently. Creating more "efficient and effective" nuclear weapons - as soon as the funding is approved, and building commences - is NOT the same as disarming and dismantling - regardless of the speed of the process.

Oh, also:

Furthermore, I have no contradicted myself;  if we drop 10 warheads and add 2 more that are more modern we are still "dismantling and disarming" our arsenal are we not?  We many not be doing it as fast as you would like but we are doing it none the less.

Tell me:

If I throw out 10 of my 15 year old 250Mb IDE hard disk drives, and replace them with 2 new 750Gb SATA hard disk drives: have I got more, or less hard disk capacity?

Or is your argument that our strategic stockpile is actually GOING UP in number?

My argument is that the US is increasing the capability and effectiveness of its nuclear stockpile, whilst indeed, reducing the actual units of out-dated hardware.

But look at that, we agree on something: the "Missile Defence Shield [sic]" is a massive waste of money, since it can never work - for many obvious reasons; yet the Pork-loving Senators and Congressional Representatives will keep authorising the billions and billions of dollars of US taxpayers' money it will cost to continue to make it not work.

That's "Sicko", isn't it?

No because not only CAN it work; it DOES work for what it is meant to WORK against.

You mean: it's meant to work against the ICBM's that aren't currently possessed by any "Rogue" nations or non-state terror groups; and it isn't and can't work against the actual ICBM's possessed by Russia and China, and currently targeted at the US?

I would much rather through billions down the pipe for a defense shield that provides coverage (limited granted but coverage none the less) than on social problems that cannot be fixed simply by throwing buckets of money at them.

And:

North Korea has been starving to death for 40 years and yet they spend vast amounts of money and resources to build weapons they have no need for (if we wanted to invade them prior to them, having a nuke would not stop us).

Seems a bit, uh, incongruous to me that on the one hand you favour the USG spending billions on a "defensive" system of limited purpose, rather than spending that money on single-payer, non-profit-making provision of Health Care to the American People; and on the other, you criticise the North Korean "Government" for spending money on "Defence", rather than on its people.

Fancy a go at squaring that circle EF?

Peace