I think that the function and facility of nuclear weapons needs to be considered in the context of the age in which they were first developed, the way that they were "used" as a deterrent during the Cold War, and current military technology.

Towards the end of World War Two, during the genesis of the Manhattan Project, the broad strategic aims of all sides in the conflict were to deliver massive, knockout blows to the enemy, in a bid to break the will of the opposing side to continue the fight.

The idea behind the development of nuclear bombs (no thought of missiles at this stage) was simply to get the biggest, most decimating bang possible out of the most compact and self-contained munitions. Why risk the number of Allied bombers and crews it took to raze Dresden, if the same (or greater) amount of destruction could be achieved by a single bomber using a single bomb?

The long-term radioactive consequences of a nuclear detonation in the area in which it was used, and the World at large, were largely unconsidered and entirely inconsequential to military planners and political leaders.

They just wanted to develop, build, possess and use the biggest possible bombs that science would allow them to create.

During the Cold War, nuclear weapons (now including missiles) were used in a deterrent capacity, under the rubric of Mutually Assured Destruction. The events of the Cuban Missile Crisis demonstrated that the possessors of the greatest nuclear arsenals understood fully that the use of same was a last resort, suicide option, to be avoided at all possible cost except that of subjugation to an enemy victory.

Even without the almost guaranteed risk of complete annihilation in response to a first strike use of nuclear weapons, there were the wholly unpredictable consequences of Life in a post-Apocalypse World. The size and scale of U.S. and Soviet nuclear arsenals at the height of the Cold War meant that even absent the certainty of retaliation, the use of just their own nuclear weapons on the Planet they lived on would create devastating environmental, social, economic and political problems for any nation that used them.

Military technology in the 21st Century, the changing priorities and strategic objectives of conflict, a more Globalised consensus amongst (at least the top 20 of) the leading World Powers, and the emergence of non-State actors as the primary security threat faced by nations, means that nuclear weapons are now redundant.

The United States possesses sufficient air power (manned and unmanned) and missile-borne conventional ordinance capability to inflict the same kind of devastation on an area as they did at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, without needing to spin-up the Radiation Roulette Wheel.

There is no conceivable scenario whereby major nations' ground forces will be pitted against each other for the purposes of territorial acquisition and defence, as we last saw in the Second World War. Dealing "Knock-out Blows" to competing industrial powers is no longer a requirement for or consideration in strategic military planning.

Nuclear weapons are expensive to maintain and secure, compared to cutting-edge non-nuclear military technology. They are a relic of the 20th Century, a headache for the nations that possess stockpiles of them, and they encourage other less stable nations and societies to pursue them.

Creating a nuclear weapons free World would be an enormous public relations victory for the politicians that facilitate such a change; but it will not change the balance of military power in the World one iota.

Celebrating their eradication and removal from our lives would be like celebrating and rewarding a person because they finally decided to stop pointing their gun at your face.

Nuclear weapons should all be scrapped because they should never have been created in the first place.

Of course it's time to clear away that garbage.

[face_peace]