Clearly no.

There is no comparable nuclear power that the UK needs to deter with a new Trident (submarine launched ICBM) system.

With the absence of a need for mutually assured deterrence, the only purpose for the use of nuclear weapons by a developed nation such as the UK, is for punishing another non-nuclear society.

The use of nuclear weapons against a non-nuclear armed opponent is something that both the UK and US governments haven't ruled out, or "taken off the table" as an option.

The 5 major nuclear-armed powers - US, UK, France, China and Russia - are all signatories to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NNPT).

The NNPT obliges the nuclear-armed countries to scale back and ultimately do away with their nuclear arsenals. It obliges the nuclear powers to refrain from further development of nuclear weapons. The NNPT also obliges nuclear-armed countries to provide technical assistance to non-nuclear-armed countries that are developing civilian nuclear power facilities.

Iran is a signatory to the NNPT. Israel, Pakistan and India are not.

Iran should expect, under the terms of the NNPT, to receive technical assistance in developing its civilian nuclear facilities (a process started, in any case, by the US in Iran in the 1970's).

The US and UK, under the terms of the NNPT, should not be developing a new generation of nuclear weapons.

The situation we have though is:

The US and UK ARE developing new nuclear weapons, in breach of the NNPT, and the US is threatening to use its nuclear weapons against non-nuclear armed Iran, even though Iran is not in breach of the NNPT.

Nuclear weapons are the height of madness. They tell us more about our Society than just about any other single characteristic.

In our Global World - Globally Economic, Globally Social, Globally Political, and of course, Globally Environmental - to even contemplate the use of nuclear weapons (and there can be no "Limited Use" of nuclear weapons) is to exhibit the defining characteristic of a genocidal sociopath.

Nuclear weapons are of no use whatsoever to a Society that regards itself as civilised.

They can never be used, because the moral damage caused to the Society that uses them is far, far greater, and perpetually more problematic than any damage caused to the uncontrollable number of lives destroyed.

Clearly, only an idiot can think that nuclear weapons serve any purpose in our Society.

Peace