In Reply To #55

In Reply To #50

The US is certainly NOT "continuing to dismantle and disarm" its nuclear stockpiles.

Actually, they are.  The Bush administration has not been dismantling arms as readily as his predecessors but it is taking place.

That's it EF: if facts are just too contrary to your beliefs, resort to blind denial. :)

Oh, but I see what you did there... You dropped the "disarm" bit from your original "...continuing to dismantle and disarm" statement. So now if I rag on you about the way the Bush Administration is expanding and developing the US nuclear arsenal, you can side-step it by pointing at evidence that the USG is dismantling some old and decrepit nuclear weapons - and try to hope I think that was your original point.

You did *read* the link I posted, didn't you? Look, here's some more:

http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?file=/c/a/2006/05/20/MNGUIIV7AJ1.DTL

http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/10/19/AR2006101901863.html

http://www.newscientist.com/article.ns?id=dn7318&feedId=online-news_rss20

This would be the point where you say: "OK Holyman, I concede the point: the United States is expanding and developing its nuclear arsenal, not reducing it."

'Cos if you don't, things are just going to get messy again, aren't they?

In fact, last I heard, the US was planning a new generation of nuclear weapons

"Planning" and "building" are two different things.  The USA planned many bombs that were never built.  Furthermore, last I heard, the administration has not received funding for this research.

...

A congressional committee took major steps this week toward financing the Bush administration's controversial program to build new generations of nuclear warheads, roughly doubling the budget for the design of the new weapons while reducing the money for maintaining the old stockpile.

From the May 20th, 2006 San Francisco Chronicle (linked above)

Tell me EF, are the Iranians "planning" or "building" a nuclear weapons programme at the moment?

And can I look forward to regular updates in the mass media, from the builders of the new US nuclear weapons, to let me know how the building process is coming along, step-by-step? Or will the first I hear about it be a big bang in the Mojave Desert?

And of course, one of Tony Blair's last unpopular decisions (so many to choose from...), was to renew the Trident nuclear weapons system

Keeping a capability is far different from expanding your capability.

Well yes.

But replacing the existing Trident system with a newer, more effective capability, is I would think, the very definition of "expanding your capability".

I mean, it's no good having a nuclear arsenal, if you have to jump-start the nukes off a car-battery. But since the NNPT mandates that the UK *must* dismantle its nuclear arsenal, surely maintaining the existing nuclear systems as they are gradually wound down, is a more compliant position than replacing everything with a newer and more effective system, no?

And of course, that kind of behaviour is just *asking* the Russians to join in

Our behavior does not drive the Russians;  they merely use it as an excuse.

What excuse do "you" use for "your" behaviour?

I mean, at least the Russians have *got* an excuse - and it's the MAD one from the Cold War.

What's "Your" excuse?

Missile interceptors placed in Europe that CANNOT POSSIBLY INTERCEPT Russian missiles (By "cannot possibly" I mean the curvature of the earth combined with the trajectories of said missies won't PHYSICALLY ALLOW IT TO HAPPEN) seem a convenient excuse for Russia to continue to rebuild her military.  News Reporters conveniently leave this part out.

You forgot the bit about the Russians (and anyone) putting "wobbly" gyroscopes in their ICBM guidance systems too...

But look at that, we agree on something: the "Missile Defence Shield [sic]" is a massive waste of money, since it can never work - for many obvious reasons; yet the Pork-loving Senators and Congressional Representatives will keep authorising the billions and billions of dollars of US taxpayers' money it will cost to continue to make it not work.

That's "Sicko", isn't it?

And what with the US changing its nuclear posture to allow first strike nuclear use against non-nuclear armed nations:

Irrelevant; the USA has always maintained Nuclear weapons for military purposes (as have other military nations).

Well, it's quite relevant.

Whilst the US has always maintained Nuclear weapons for military purposes (as opposed to Civilian, Agricultural or Entertainment purposes), it is only in the last few years that it has changed its doctrine to allow the use of Nuclear weapons against non-nuclear armed nations.

That change in posture must surely be an encouragement for the nations the US dislikes to get hold of its own nuclear deterrent (that they didn't previously need).

How is that not relevant to your original point?

...And informing countries like Iran that "No options are off the table", in forcing Iran to bend to the will of the United States

Seeing as they are not doing what the USA , UN, and the world is asking of them, I find it hard to say they are bending to anybody's will.

The US wants Iran to do something that the Iranians are not inclined to do: suspend the Iranian Civilian Nuclear Energy Programme (that the United States began for "friendly" Iran in the early 1970's).

In trying to force Iran to bend to its will, the USG has repeatedly stated that "no options are off the table", when asked if it would use nuclear weapons against still-not-yet-nuclear-armed Iran.

How often do Americans back down when threatened?

Their actions supplying Hezbollah, Iraqi insurgents, their actions in North Korea, etc lead me to believe they do not really fear any direct military action by the United States at all.

Yeah, who would be afraid of the United States, after the gross incompetence it has demonstrated in Iraq? Who would be afraid of the United States turning an entire country to glass?

Got a feeling that the Iranians understand that the US is more frightened of China and Russia, than Iran is frightened of the US...

I thought you said you were finding it difficult to find a good reason for ANYBODY to have or develop nuclear weaponry.

Has that changed? You point out that they see good reasons for developing nuclear weapons (by their own admission as a first strike option against other nations) but has this changed your position on the matter?

No.

*I* am still having difficulty finding a single "good" reason for developing and possessing nuclear weapons.

I've never said that I was having difficulty understanding others' "good [sic] reasons" for developing and possessing nuclear weapons.

I mean: EVERYONE who has or wants nuclear weapons, must believe they have "good" reasons, no?

Peace