[quote="Vaxx"][color=#008000]That said, I must admit If the above posting was to be boiled down,  I don't know if you [i]really[/i] answered the question of how Obama "destroyed the economy" ---it kind of seems like you are saying that rather:  he didn't [i]radically reform the financial system [/i]  or he didn't fix what was broken. I can't argue that that isn't a failure.

Not reforming things enough, is not the same as saying he "destroyed the economy" ---but that's just semantic objection, (edit,  I guess I just get tired of hearing a really similar-sounding argument from the yokels and the haters and the right-wing radio guys  around here, who basically blame obama for the recession and unemployment, i don't think you are making the same argument).[/color][/quote]

No, I'm not trying to make that same argument.

It takes more than a single President - no matter how black (!) - to "destroy" an Economy!

The U.S. Economy has not been destroyed, by anybody. The U.S. Economy still exists; it is still the largest Economy in the World; and the U.S. Dollar is still (for now at least), the [i]de facto[/i] Global Reserve Currency.

But... The U.S. Economy is not in very good shape at the moment. And, by association, and by inextricable relationship, that means that the Global Economy is not in very good shape at the moment either.

As ever, my main beef here is with the hypocrisy of the situation, and with the man. I can't abide dishonesty generally, and I *REALLY* despise any dishonesty that has a direct and deleterious impact upon my own Life.

Dealing with politicians is just like dealing with children: it is the dishonesty that is the problem; not particularly whatever it is they are being dishonest about. You can forgive politicians and children for their crimes and misdemeanours, but only if and when they are being honest about what they are doing, have or haven't done.

As a parent, you have to try and find the right balance with your response to your children's misdemeanours. On the one hand, you want to discourage them from misbehaving in the first place, so you want your reaction to their misbehaviour to be suitably fearsome, in order to try and make them think twice before they misbehave. But on the other hand, if their misbehaviour has created or could create serious consequences, you don't want them to be so afraid of your reaction that they won't tell you they've fucked up. Because you'll need to know they've fucked up bad, as soon as possible, so you can start clearing up after their fuck-up.

So it goes with politicians. Nobody is expecting them to be infallible. But when they fuck up (or are fucking up), we need them to make a clean breast of it all, so we can make an informed decision about how best to proceed.

But when we have to deal with everything from seemingly innocuous "spin", through deliberate obfuscation, up to outright lies... Deciding how best to proceed becomes impossible.

And that was really the basis of my coda to the piece(s) I wrote above: if Obama really *IS* in an impossible position himself, unable to carry out any of the vital and necessary changes required to protect and support the Economy (amongst other responsibilities), because of the hopelessly broken "Democratic" system... Then he owes it to the people who voted for him to come clean about that.

Otherwise, if he doesn't, then it is hardly fair to blame the swivel-eyed lunatics - across *ALL* the Political Spectrum - for suggesting that maybe Obama doesn't actually *WANT* to do anything differently. That maybe, Obama is more in thrall to the hyper-rich Wall Street individuals and organisations who funded his billion-dollar election campaigns; that maybe Obama feels he owes those Oligarchs and Kleptocrats much more than he owes the people who voted him into office.

I mean, I do think I'm being quite generous here. I'm giving "The Most Powerful Man in the World" the benefit of the doubt. I'm allowing that the reason he may have done absolutely nothing to correct the problems that caused the Financial Crisis in 2008 (much less done anything to reform the Financial System or Economic paradigm), might just be because he is simply unable to do anything about it.

If I were more cynical, I would suggest that actually, he is doing *EXACTLY* what he is supposed to do; which is to serve the real Power Interests of the United States - the "1%", if you like - whilst continuing to feed the Citizens of America with soporific bromides.

But like I said, if it really is the case that he is paralysed by a broken and corrupt political system: then he has a duty to declare that to the American People: explicitly, unequivocally, and without any further delay.

Otherwise, he can't really complain when others accuse him of failing to fulfil the responsibilities of his Office, can he?