[quote="Slacks"]I like Holyman's view of how a world should be. Things that immediately spring to mind though:

- In a region of high crime, high unemployment etc, with little prospect of raising a decent level of regional tax revenue, how would that community be able to tackle it's social problems without income or subsidies from a higher governmental body? Would it be down to other regional bodies to decide to help out, or leave it to it's own devices (natural selection and all that)[/quote]

Alright then... I can give you one hour... Let's see what I can get done: will have to pick anything I miss up later.

OK, so starting with First Principles: we're not fundamentally talking about changing anything much, other than Scale.

I'm talking about the facility to reduce the size of an independent political entity from the current National (and to a degree, Supra-National) Size, down to something much, much smaller. Actually, ultimately, down to the smallest size possible:

An Independent State of One.

Yup, in order to take my ideology to its ultimate conclusion (and therefore validate it!), the facility to establish a Sovereign Nation of just One Person must be permitted.

First things first: let's define what we mean by a "Community".

Well naturally enough, we immediately think of Human Communities as being geographically proximate. But that doesn't necessarily have to be a given. It could be, of course, that certain communities do want to define themselves geographically and live in close proximity with one another. Their chosen policies, intra-communal obligations, codes of conduct &c., would be based around the idea of living within a single, contiguous and self-contained geographical space.

Why not? If they can get hold of a space that suits their chosen Way of Life, I can't think of any reason why they should be prevented from living within that space however they see fit.

I don't even see anything wrong with the idea that if a Community chose to do so, it could barricade itself into its own physical space, and tightly control who was allowed into their space. The only condition, as I mentioned previously, would be that any attempt to hold adults within the Community Space against their will, would be treated as a criminal action.

But..! In this day and age, the idea of a Community being solely defined by its geographical conditions is, well, getting a bit old-fashioned...

Just ask The Kids these days... They are just as likely to be best mates with someone from the other side of the World, as with someone who lives next door. It is certainly easier to use the Internet to find others who share your interests and concerns, than it is to find them in the neighbourhood you happened to be born in.

So, let's imagine that whilst there are bound to be spots dotted around the World, where certain communities will have barricaded themselves against the Rest of the World; there are going to be plenty of other "Open Zones", where people happen to physically dwell alongside each other, without necessarily feeling obliged to interact with or even notice one another.

(If you think that is an unlikely scenario, why don't you quickly pop out your front door and go have a quick chat with your neighbours on either side to get their opinions...)

- How would regions be able to predict their likely requirements and allocate resources for health, education etc. if people can move in and out of their regions at will and without restriction?

- Groups of people seem to unconsciously seek other groups to join up with, or are at least apathetic when their groups drift into federations. What mechanisms would be in place to ensure that regions did not form larger regions that start to form distinctly nation-like characteristics?

- As the most powerful armed entity on earth, what would stop the 'UN' from abusing it's power?

- What mechanisms would be in place to stop commercial monopolies from assuming greater and greater power over people's material standard of living?

I'm sure there's more questions, but those are the one's I have right now.[/quote]