[quote=SomeGuy post_id=36070 time=1761395918 user_id=73][color=#4000FF]Paging Holyman, what are humans going to do in an AI future again? Stuff like this implies even the creative arts and entertainment will be automated/AI.[/color][/quote]

When I gave a public talk on "The Future of Money", back in 2019, I finished my talk with the following:

[quote]It is easier for humans to imagine a World destroyed by nuclear holocaust or environmental catastrophe, than to imagine a World without money.[/quote]

I finished with that, because I felt then (and feel even more strongly now) that unless that last condition is met, and Humanity transcends its fixation with Money once and for all, then either (or both) of the first two conditions will be Humanity's immediate future.

I'm starting my response to you with it SG, because it is really, really, *VITALLY* important that we all start imagining, thinking about, and preparing for a World beyond Money.

Let me start with a clear delineation between what human beings want to do, and what the tools they create (and continue to create) will be doing.

Fairy Godmother Time SG:

*ALL* of your material needs are met. Housing, food, clothing, transportation, energy, Healthcare. Right? For the purposes of this hypothetical, you do not need to even *THINK* about money, much less spend any of your Life's Time worrying about it.

So, you don't *NEED* to work.

If you choose to engage productively and positively with any activities we currently regard as "work", then that is entirely up to you. You should be able to take your pick of any "job", because you will be happily working for free.

And, if you choose to spend some (or all) of your now limitless Free Time in any way(s) that you find personally fulfilling:

What would those ways be for you SG?

How would you spend your Waking Hours in a way that you personally find fulfilling?

This is the bit that too many humans have difficulty thinking about. What would they do with their lives if they didn't have to think about money? If money was no longer the defining framework of human life.

You don't have to justify what you choose to do to anyone else. You can just spend your Time exploring your own interests as the whims take you. You could spend more of your Time developing and enjoying your firearms collection, for example. Or get involved in building up a robust local community, help your neighbours take up the slack following the collapse of the Federal Government...

Whatever floats your boat.

Key thing being that the Choices you make in your own Life, will be determined by your own Free Will, rather than by your employer, government, and/or peers.

Right. That's the first delineation: the things that human beings want to do, individually and collectively.

The second delineation:

Any tool or technology that Humanity develops and deploys can and only ever will do what its creators and operators tell it to do.

Whatever label our Society may currently be putting on these incredible technologies, "artificial intelligence", "large language models", "generative"/"adaptive" &c., there is zero possibility that any human-created technology will ever possess a "soul".

The "soul" of a human being is what makes them want things. It is what enables a human being to imagine something that isn't yet there, and to then Create it. The human "soul" is the nexus point between all of our idiosyncratic aspects: our minds, our bodies, our emotions, and critically, our Subjective Experiences.

It is the "soul" of a human being that facilitates Free Expression, that permits individual thought, and which reminds us all every day that we are distinct from all other "souls".

No logic or mathematics can replicate that "soul" in a machine or digital form. Humanity has yet to discover the formula for individuated consciousness. Humans do not yet understand their own conscious identities: what they are, how they function, where they are located in the physical human body. So there is currently no danger of anyone being able to replicate the human "soul" in digital (or mechanical) form.

And so there is no point speculating on what a "Self-Aware" machine might do if it had a "Skynet Moment", nor what its human operators might do in response. Not because it won't ever happen, but because it can't ever happen.

So let's not waste any Time clutching our pearls about what we fearfully imagine might happen, because it never can.

That's the second delineation then SG:

The tools and machines, analogue and digital, will only ever be capable of performing the tasks that humans have created them to perform.

...

So, setting aside visions of an "AI"-decimated dystopia, we'll assume that Humanity reaches the required level of Collective Responsibility that ensures no more "bad actors" can do any more damage to Human Society with their corrupt misuse of this very powerful technology...

(Humanity either will or it won't. I don't have any visibility on the outcome of that coin-toss...)

We now have increasingly sophisticated technologies that are capable of performing almost all of the tasks necessary to keep human beings alive. And there will be no shortage of volunteers for those tasks that will always need to be carried out by a human being.

Humanity's current combined agricultural, industrial, and logistical capacities and capabilities are more than sufficient to sustainably care for and support all human beings alive today. And as Human technological achievements progress, more and more of the "work" that Global Human Welfare will require, can and will be carried out by the tools Humanity has created. More efficiently and sustainably than any humans can perform the processes and tasks.

And this will free any human being on the Planet who chooses to, from having to spend [i]at least[/i] a third of their adult lives having to work just to survive.

Those human beings will then be Free to live their own lives in a manner of their own choosing, Creatively expressing and exploring themselves.

Obviously there will be an Adjustment Period, and we are very much into that right now. But once all the dust settles, it will become abundantly and inarguably clear to everyone that we really need to let the Machines (we have created) take care of all the Necessary Stuff, while human beings get on with enjoying all the Unnecessary stuff.

This is a Change that is happening Now.

Because it must happen Now.

It could always have been an Orderly Change; but inevitably, Humanity is now going through a Disorderly Change.

Please fasten your seatbelt and return your tray to its upright position.