[quote=Slacks post_id=5512 time=1683115955 user_id=68][color=#008040]I don't understand in sufficient depth how essential the banks are to any economy. All I do know is increasing levels of fragile debt to maintain increasing levels of unsustainable consumption just to keep an economy together doesn't seem like a good idea to me, yet we seem to have been collectively convinced that this is the only way to go.[/color][/quote]

The term "Bank" (and its derivations e.g., 'banker') comes from the Italian word, 'banco', which means a bench or money exchange table. Money-changers and lenders used to work on these tables in the plazas of Renaissance Italian City-States.

Banking established itself as a social function in those City-States around the 14th century, and over the next three hundred years, spread to the rest of Western Europe.

At the beginning of the 17th century, the newly-independent (from Spain) Netherlands got hold of banking concepts and took things to the next level, with the English close behind. Primarily used to finance colonial land-grabs, and in the case of the English, piracy, the establishment of banking and Central Banking functions transformed the Economic landscape. The entire Industrial Revolution in Western Europe was financed by banks.

And there were a lot of banks.

Because once you had accumulated enough capital to create and operate your own bank, you had a license to print money.

The majority of banks in operation today, have their roots in institutions founded in the 18th Century. The exceptions being the so-called, "Challenger Banks". These are banks founded in the last 20 years or so that have stripped retail banking back to its essentials, and who focus exclusively on service delivery.

Any bank not originally founded in the 21st century or later, is what (these days) we call a "Challenged Bank".

Challenged not by the "Challenger Banks", but by modern technology and social change.

There are two different types of banking, "Consumer" and "Investment". Those are the two terms that are essentially accurate and generally recognised.

"Consumer" banking is boring, mundane and unglamorous. The role of a consumer bank is to function as a mattress, into or under which consumer-grade individuals can stuff any spare cash they may have, whilst they have it.

When you have your salary or wage payment deposited directly into your bank account, you are making a short-term loan to that bank. If the bank goes bust, most governments will guarantee your deposits, up to a certain level (in the UK, it is about £80k). But if you had more than that on deposit with the bank when it went under, the you join the queue (at the back) of all the other entities the bank owed money to.

But at least you don't have to manage all of your liquid capital in tangible form. You can only stuff so much cash into and under so many mattresses...

So, in exchange for loaning your money to these banks, you get a level of security and warehousing for your wealth. You also get the advantage of being able to get at your money wherever you are in the World, without having to travel with it.

The costs of operating a Consumer Bank that can perform the above functions reliably and securely, are negligible. 21st century consumers are more technologically fluent and capable than their 20th century equivalents, by an order of magnitude. "Challenger Banks" like Starling, Monzo and others, have focussed on technology that allows and encourages its customers to perform as much of the administration as possible. This reduces staff overhead and empowers customers.

Because... "Consumer" banking is boring, mundane, and unglamorous.

But... One way or another, the money-related services provided by consumer banks are generally seen as essential (currently, at least) to the ordered function of value-exchange.

In other words:

Most individual humans recognise and support the need for basic banking facilities.

The issue here is not the facility or function, but how consumer banking has been (and continues to be) operated as a for-profit enterprise.

Making money from money is the easiest occupation in the Human World.

If you have a surplus, loaning that money out to someone who has a deficit, when repaid, will increase the amount of surplus you control. You can rinse and repeat, loaning as much money to as many individuals as you have an appetite for. Once you've got the hang of it, you automate the whole process and just sit back and watch the profits roll in.

You console yourself that you are performing a socially necessary function and assuage any guilt by reminding yourself that there are far worse individuals who could be occupying your position.

However, before too long, you become too successful.

That is: too successful at sucking as much profit as possible from the Economic System you have latched yourself onto. You are as rich as Croesus, but everyone else is dirt poor. There is no longer any economic activity for you to feed off.

All the money you made, all the money you threw on the various piles of the stuff you already had, is money that was unavailable to anyone else.

And now, they are at the gates of your sequestered mansion, demanding an explanation for that.

Suddenly, "Consumer" banking is less-boring, less mundane, and a bit more glamorous.

...

All of which unpleasantness can be fully and completely resolved with a single measure:

Nationalise consumer banking.

Everything remains as it is. There would be no need for any staff or process changes.

The only difference would be with the shareholders.

There wouldn't be any.

The national government would hold the sole National Bank "share". Any and all profits generated by the National Bank would accrue to the government.

"Consumer Banking" will be be operated by users of clear and simple technology. Any profits generated are fed directly back to the bank's customers.

Simples.

...

NB. "Investment Banking" is institutionalised Loan-Sharking, carried out on an epic scale (for now). Can do that another time, if anyone is interested.