OK then.

Again: "MC" = Management Consultancy (and conjugations thereof).

The foundational function provided by the MC sector is cross-pollination of "Best Practice" between organisations.

Individual Subject Matter Experts (SME's) move between organisations, with increasing frequency these days. Individual SMEs possess a good and general understanding of their area of expertise. Usually, they will also possess a deep, theoretical understanding of a particular area (or set of areas) of expertise; and they will all possess a greater or lesser quantity of experience.

This is the Value that SMEs bring with them, and it is down to the client to ensure that the best the SME has to offer, is connected in a meaningful and productive way with the rest of the organisation.

SMEs come in all shapes and sizes. Every professional occupation at any level in an organisation requires a degree of expertise. A Chief Executive Officer needs to understand the responsibilities of their position, just as much as an Office Cleaner knows to keep an eye on those difficult-to-reach crevices behind the urinals.

The Strategic Objective of all participants in a group of individuals (attempting to organise to cooperate and coordinate most efficiently), is to identify and understand the individual strengths within the organisation.

The somewhat glib (-ly used) MC phrase is:

[quote]"Fit the work around the people; not the people around the work."[/quote]

That sounds cheesy, but it does describe a pervasive and regressive dynamic in virtually all human organisations. As does "There is no point trying to force a square peg into a round hole."

It isn't that you might task someone to do something that they do not feel like doing (though you frequently may), but that you misallocate a valuable resource to an activity that less-valuable resources at your disposal could easily and more cost-effectively fulfil. When you require the individual's actual subject matter expertise, their expertise is no longer an available resource.

This has been the prevailing dynamic wherever and whenever groups of human beings have attempted do collectively organise. It is a dynamic that is increasingly producing diminishing returns, for quite some time now.

It is a dynamic that is well understood by those whose positions exist to further human cooperation and coordination.

Human resources are misallocated to tasks they do not have an aptitude for and will therefore never have any personal interest in completing. Other tasks for which those resources do have an aptitude, will require their expertise, but it will be unavailable whilst they are stuck doing tasks they find personally unfulfilling.

A Lose-Lose Situation if ever there was one.

The Solution is also well understood by most.

Decentralised and distributed systems of coordination and cooperation. Greater autonomy for defined, organised groups of individuals, over discrete and demarcated areas of social policy.

Geographic demarcation serves no further purpose at this stage in Humanity's existence, especially so if Humanity wishes that existence to continue in the perceivable future. We can all argue endlessly about whether or not it ever did, without changing a single moment in History. The inarguable fact Today, is that it serves no further positive purpose; serves in fact to only further sow and nurture the very divisions Nationalism claims to be a bulwark against.

We all Exist in the Same Reality.

How we each have chosen or been required to perceive that Same Reality is, whatever else, Unique.

Our inclinations and propensities to find Common Cause are understandable, given the instability and uncertainty most of us currently face. They are also easy to manipulate and exploit. Too much naked and widespread manipulation and exploitation of Human Fear has created a Human World full of Fear.

Change is Required.

And yet, Change is most commonly the thing that is Most Feared.

It is into that gaping maw of Fear that Management Consultants have set-up shop, in the space originally created in 1926, by the University of Chicago academic, [url=https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/McKinsey_%26_Company]James O. McKinsey[/url].

McKinsey was the original Management Consultant, and the practice he founded in 1926, is the single MC firm with its fingers in the most pies.

I imagine I will have more to say about McKinsey's later, but for now, my dogs require a walk.

[img] https://i.pinimg.com/originals/2d/0d/e9/2d0de95ff2fcd6f23d4b012708cc4f22.jpg[/img]