There are two primary entities involved with relation to economic inflation: the Public Sector, and the Private Sector.

The Public Sector refers to all services (and occasionally goods) provided by a society to its citizens.

The Private Sector refers to private individuals, the organisations they create, and the capital assets they own.

When the Private Sector falls into economic decline (recessions and depressions), it is impossible for it to reverse that decline itself. Private owners of capital and business organisations will rarely invest in markets that are in decline, where the only guaranteed outcome is a loss.

Handfuls of individuals and business organisations may take the opportunity of an economy in decline to identify and make investments that they feel will pay-off when the economy recovers. But never anywhere near enough to reignite a stumbling economy.

So the generally accepted approach is for the Public Sector to "spend" money into the economy to get it back on its feet. And by "spend", I mean "create".

Central Governments can borrow money on the Bond Market, if it chooses, but as we all know, it costs money to borrow money. And all the money that is borrowed by a government, and the money it pays to borrow that money, has to be repaid at some point.

The idea here is that once a Private Sector economy has been reignited by a Public Sector government, taxes can be collected to repay the debts incurred during reignition.

But Central Governments with their own Central Banks (e.g. the U.S., U.K., Japan &c.) do not need to borrow money from the Bond Market in order to spend it into the economy. They can instead just create the money out of thin-air.

Of course, we all know the dangers of creating too much money: it devalues the currency, and in serious cases leads to hyperinflation. But this is not an issue when a domestic economy is in significant decline, especially where dependency on imported goods and services is low.

The top priority is to reignite the economy. Increased domestic spending on social and infrastructure services is the most effective way to introduce newly-created money into the economy. When the Private Sector is back on its feet and mostly self-sustaining, excess money can be withdrawn from the economy via taxation.

That is the theory, anyway.

The problem human societies generally have when trying to implement the theory, is that there is a lot of overlap and blur between the Private and Public Sectors.

Merging the Private and Public Sectors has been the determined and widely-publicised policy of most governments in the Western World over the last 50 years.

Responsibilities for the provision of essential services such as energy, water and mass-transportation, have been largely abandoned by Western Governments. Private Sector organisations have been tasked with delivering essential services, incentivised by the opportunity to make financial profits.

Again, in theory.

In practice however, the result is that the Private Sector organisations spend as little as possible on maintenance, service delivery and development. The money saved (after being collected from citizens that use water and energy) is then distributed among the private shareholders of the service-providing organisations.

And because these are all such essential public utilities, the Public Sector cannot allow the Private Sector to mess it up. So the Private Sector attempts to deliver these services are always underwritten by... The Public Sector.

Leading to the current situation where profits are privatised, and losses are socialised.

Time for a Change, I feel.