I read a book in 2002 called [b]"NETOCRACY: the new power elite and life after capitalism"[/b]:

https://www.amazon.ca/NETOCRACY-power-elite-after-capitalism/dp/1903684293/https://www.amazon.com/Netocracy-Power-Elite-After-Capitalism/dp/1903684293/https://www.amazon.co.uk/Netocracy-Power-Elite-after-Capitalism/dp/1903684293/

It sort of became my professional Bible. I know I've preached about before, here and at =PBF=.

Written by a couple of very intelligent Scandinavians, they outlined their view of Humanity's Future, focussing in particular on the ways that technology (and the inter-connectedness it brings) will transform Human Society, particularly economically and politically.

The profound Changes that are now happening to Humanity's relationship with Itself were all detailed by the authors of "Netocracy". Not based on any prognostications or runestone readings, but on the logical, predictable and basically inevitable outcomes, given what we all understand to be True about Humanity.

[quote]Forget capitalism and the class struggle, we are witnessing the birth of a whole new world. The digital revolution is, in fact, changing things far more dramatically then the hype-mongers of tech Internet ever imagined - only not in the way that they and their investors hoped. The move from a society dominated by print and broadcast mass media to the age of interactivity is at least as dramatic as the move from feudalism to capitalism.

After capitalism comes attentionalism. Those who can harness global networks of information and master new forms of communication will control business, finance and legislation, forming the new business and government elites. They will inherit the power; they are the Netocracy.

Driven by the Internet and mobile communications, networks are turning into the major means of doing business, organising action, getting knowledge; the organising principle for the information age. Simply put, networks will make the world go round. [b]So controlling the networks of this world will soon count for more than controlling the capital.[/b][/quote]

That last line (that I have emboldened 8) ), is the fundamental premise the authors put forward in "Netocracy".

Capitalism, as a basic operating model for Human Economics, has had a good run.

In its original form, Mercantile Capitalism, it really helped move Humanity forward in terms of social development. Buying Low and Selling High was a basic principle that just about any human being could get their heads around; and given the need to transport goods (and information) over long distances, there were plenty of opportunities for ingenious, inventive, and (mostly) hard-working human beings to make themselves a material surplus above what they needed for mere survival.

Next up came Industrial Capitalism, around the beginning of the 19th Century. In this paradigm, any material surplus accrued belonged to whoever owned the means of production (and not, as Karl Marx pointed out, to those human beings whose labour created that surplus value).

Industrial Capitalism drove (and funded) Humanity's Industrial Revolution; it also created (and delivered) the greatest Civil War in Human History (from 1914 to the present day).

In 1944, the United States moved the Human World to the third and final stage of Capitalism: Finance Capitalism.

All you need to make money in a Finance Capitalism Economy, is money.

And if you haven't got money to make money, you can always try and rent some money. Plenty of Finance Capitalists (still) about to take advantage of those human beings who want to rent their Futures (at compound interest).

Finance Capitalism could never sustain or endure. Not because it is immoral or ideologically abhorrent to some, but because it is based on a principle of infinite expansion (or "growth"). A totally plausible idea a couple of centuries ago, when there was still a lot of Planet Earth to be discovered and "owned" by human beings. But now that Humanity has spread to every corner of the Planet, and dug-up and sold just about everything it could get a price for, Finance Capitalism has reached the end of its purposefulness for Human Society.

[quote]Manuel Castells has described the Internet as the most extraordinary technological revolution in history. But he also suggests it is as underdeveloped socially as it is overdeveloped technologically. The societal implications of the communications revolution are going to hit soon. Netocracy predicts what they will be, where the power will flow and draws some remarkable conclusions about life after capitalism.[/quote]

Human Life is now about who we are connected to, rather than how much capital we can obtain (and try not to spend). Who you know has *ALWAYS* been more crucial to social advancement than what you know.

More so now than ever before in Human History, we individuals have the facility to communicate directly with one another, free from intermediary agents like politicians, religionists, and capitalists (and those who work for them).

"Netocracy" describes how the authors foresee Humanity's Future unfolding (and hopefully continuing), as individual human beings ("Netocrats") coordinate and communicate directly with each other, without relying on centralised organisations to act as arbiters of "Truth", and the dissemination of "facts [sic]".

In the initial phase of this Paradigm Shift (that is now well underway, but was only just beginning when "Netocracy" was first published in late 2001), the most "powerful" entities in the current Capitalist World will attempt to "own" and monetise the technology-based services that will be based on "platforms". The intention (/strategy) will be to create a new "Landlord" class, with the consumers of the services provided by "platforms" as digital "Tenants".

These new digital "Landlords" will not care what their "Tenants" are doing on their platforms, just as long as they are doing it on the platforms owned by those "Landlords".

However, these new digital "Landlords" won't last very long, because their approach to "business" operations will be to try and squeeze every last penny/cent out of their "Tenants" (as we have seen many human "landlords" do).

There will be (there is currently) a tremendous "Turf War" between "competing" "Platform-providers" to gather as many "Tenants" as possible, in order to make as much money as possible. Prospective "Tenants" will be lured by novel technological facilities, and conditioned (with the full assistance of Machine-Learning algorithms) to personally identify (and compete socially) with the rest of the "Platform's Community". Anything and everything that will be (is now) technologically possible to retain as many "Daily Active Users" as possible.

And this will be effective for a short while, until the novelty wears off, and "Platform Users" start asking themselves why they are spending so much of their lives using these "Platforms". And then, the whole Last Gasp of Capitalism will be over, and the Age of Netocracy will properly (and inevitably) begin.

(I can't wait! 8) )

Nothing that human beings can create (/have created) and use is inherently "good" or "bad", or "right" or "wrong". It is the use that human beings put their creations to that determines how purposeful (or not) those creations are (or are not).

What is taking place on the Internet is a reflection of (and can *ONLY* be a reflection of) what is taking place within the Human World right now.

There are a lot of very, very frightened human beings on Planet Earth at the moment.

Frightened about their own survival, and the survival of those they Love.

The World has undoubtedly become more unstable, more uncertain, and more frightening over the last couple of decades.

Feeling deep existential fear tends to pollute and distort our efforts at communication with each other. A vicious circle is created where fear diminishes effective communications, and the lack of effective communications increases general and individual senses of fear.

What we are seeing, hearing and (ultimately) feeling through the Internet (and paleomedia), is an accurate reflection of where Humanity is today, and most crucially, how human beings are currently and generally feeling.

What might we do about that?