[quote=XERXES_II post_id=5720 time=1683579534 user_id=67] [color=#0040FF]Back to the original topic which is summarized by the graph in the original post.

Normally when prices increase as by inflation, people are hurt by being unable to afford things AND businesses are hurt by decreased revenue.  The central banks also may increase interest rates to drive down prices.  Businesses decrease spending whether it is by fewer loans or layoffs.  Make it severe enough and you have a recession.

What some economists are arguing is that large businesses are taking advantage of perceived cost increases to drive up prices.  The increase in prices is far outpacing the increase in costs.  This is greedflation when the expected relationship between supply and demand no longer applies and large businesses accept lower volume at higher prices, bottom of the populace be damned.  These price increases are harming people, but the large businesses are reaping record profits.  Central banks try to use interest rate increases to fix the inflation, but it isn't working.  People are then harmed by price increases on both small and large items while also being harmed on large purchases by higher interest rates.[/color][/quote]

[img]https://i.pinimg.com/originals/c3/07/50/c3075056fc7a80f266d78517e62bf1a8.gif[/img]

Inflation is the Ghost in the Capitalist Machine.

[url= https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planned_economy]"Planned Economies"[/url] do not have problems with currency inflation, because the value of the currency is set centrally at a domestically-determined level. However, because the currencies of Planned Economies are frequently controlled by governments with alternative ideologies to "Free Market" Capitalism, the value of those currencies on foreign exchanges is usually very low.

This means that imports when priced in the local currency, are usually very expensive, and prone to shortages in supply. Prices of domestically produced goods and services remain stable, but imported goods and services are subject to significant volatility.

The absence of the dynamic of inflation in Planned Economies also appears to retard growth. "Free Market Capitalist" economies exhibit far greater growth rates than Planned Economies, over pretty much any time period (and explosively so since the end of World War Two).

Inflation is absolutely at the heart of that growth.

Inflation makes wealth grow without the need for any specific or individual inputs.

Inflation also makes debts shrink, again without the need for the debtor to do anything.

Investors (a.k.a. Lenders) can anticipate where and when inflation is going to take place and position their wealth to take advantage of the anticipated growth in economic activity.

This in turn facilitates those with lots of ideas but little capital.

And each newly created node of activity in the Economy propagates and stimulates the growth of further activity.

Because of Inflation.

[media] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KJh0pDMnL8M[/media]

No Inflation means no growth; no growth means stagnation; stagnation means extinction.

But it is a right bastard to try and control.

Whilst "Free Market" Capitalism remains the prevailing Economic Framework, Inflation must remain a necessary aspect of our collective Experience. Personally, based on my own Experience and Understanding, I have to say that the sooner Humanity ditches "Free Market" Capitalism for good, the better.

"Free Market" Capitalism (FMC from here onwards...) served Humanity well enough as it expanded across the Planet. We understand now that it has always served certain sections of Humanity far more positively than others. And after around 3 centuries or so of a lot of trials and errors, it remains the unchallengeable and prevailing Human Economic orthodoxy.

The problem that FMC now has - in what is increasingly and ubiquitously being called [url= https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Late_capitalism]"End-stage Capitalism"[/url] - is that it has more or less comprehensively defeated any alternative orthodoxy that has tried to displace it.

FMC has run out of enemies, and with no credible opposition, is now collapsing in on itself.

(How many times have we seen that happen with human endeavours of all types..?)

Less philosophically:

Collective human ideologies, moralities, and modalities over the last 300 years or so have facilitated and rewarded unimaginable advances. Revolutions in agriculture, industry and society have all combined to create a 21st century Planet Earth that could never have been imagined, much less expected by our ancestors.

Humanity has colonised just about everywhere this Planet has to offer and is now, gently trying to begin to colonise other Planets...

Free-Market Capitalism has been a huge success, in the area of Material expansion.

But now it is clear - to all who are able to see - that Humanity has reached the full limits of its explosive material growth rate. And indeed, is clearly breaching those limits in several key areas.

Free-Market Capitalism brought ("bought"?) Humanity out of its Medieval, agrarian past (or at least, created the opportunity for that - for certain, privileged members of Humanity).

And our scientists are now telling us (actually: pleading with us) that material economies that are based on the concept(s) of "infinite" and/or "unrestricted" growth, are now exhausting the ability of our Planet to sustain Humanity's continued existence.

Time for something else then.

[url= https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eco-socialism]"Eco-socialism"[/url] merges aspects of socialism with that of "Green" politics, ecology and anti-globalisation.

Many Westerners will recoil at the "S" word element, but I would urge them (as in all things) to dig at least a little beneath their understanding of the word. Hopefully noting in particular that there is a significant difference between "Socialism" and "socialism". The former refers to a group of political ideologies; the latter to a philosophical movement.

The key distinction in the context of this, uh, post, is that small-S "socialism" is characterised by social ownership.

"Social Ownership" just means that everything is owned by everyone.

Not owned by governments. Not owned by individual shareholders. Owned fully by those who work to deliver the goods or services, and by those who receive those goods or services.

Ownership has nothing to do with the management of operations. The individuals currently managing and delivering those operations are obviously the correct candidates for the role. Top-to-Bottom. Executives, managers and workforce. No reason to change anyone.

All that changes is the ownership of the operation: from multiples of private individual and institutional investors to a single co-operative. And all that means in practice is that any material profits generated by the operation are distributed among the individuals in the co-operative.

The co-operative chooses who will take on the specific roles and responsibilities of the operation, otherwise, it is Business-as-Usual.

Eco-socialism eliminates the private ownership of material capital. All material capital available to Humanity is owned by Humanity as a whole.

The systems for logistics and distribution remain unchanged. They will be much, much more efficient and effective, because they will absolutely need to be. Elimination of waste will be key, Continuous Improvement essential.

The only substantial difference in dynamic will be the elimination of extractive payments to remote shareholders. Profit dividends distributed to those involved with the operation are not extractive. Profit-sharing among workers reduces the payroll overhead, and among customers increases their loyalty and ability to spend.

Such a change in ownership dynamic positively and substantially influences the operational culture among those engaged on day-to-day operations.

Instead of bitching about working conditions to someone equally blighted by them, you can spend your day discussing your ideas with your co-workers, in the knowledge that you can and will do something about those ideas. Any productivity and efficiency gains you and your colleagues implement, translate directly to greater availability and control of resources.

It is a no-brainer.

It is also Unavoidable.

As the Eco-socialists like to say:

The Future is Eco-socialism. Because without Eco-socialism, there is no Future.

[img] https://i.imgflip.com/58nlxn.jpg[/img]