Well, I didn't see this coming:

The Epstein Revelations bringing down the UK Government.

Kier Starmer has been looking increasingly tenuous as Labour Party Leader for a good six months now, and this epic catastrophe could just well finish him off.

The UK Parliament is in a highly disordered and fragile state, since the implosion of the Conservative Party. The Labour Party has only ever been a coalition of different ideologies spread over a wide spectrum from Centrist to Hard-Left. Starmer has demonstrated little authority or given any purposeful direction in his time as leader of the Labour Party. He became UK Prime Minister by default, because he happened to be the leader of the second party in the UK's two-party system, when the first party finally dissolved into oblivion.

Without an obviously incompetent, ignorant, and corrupt Conservative Party in power to berate and oppose, this Labour government has very little to offer to party members and UK citizens.

Kier Starmer admitted his culpability in Parliament yesterday, when he answered a direct question about his knowledge of Peter Mandelson's links with Jeffrey Epstein, with an honest "Yes."

The issue is not that Mandelson (like so many of the Uber Elite, apparently) had connections with Epstein, but that he passed UK state secrets to Epstein's network. Mandelson is now being investigated by the Metropolitan Police who will press charges if they discover conclusive evidence of Mandelson's criminal conduct. And he could (and probably would) go to jail if convicted.

Meanwhile, Kier Starmer's judgement and leadership are under heavy parliamentary fire, primarily from members of the Parliamentary Labour Party, including the former Deputy Prime Minister, Angela Rayner. It was she who demanded that rather than allowing members of the Labour Party in government (particularly the current Prime Minister...) to decide what information to make public (regarding Mandelson's association with Epstein), it should be done by Parliament's Intelligence and Security Committee. This committee is comprised of MPs from all parties who hold sufficient security clearance to review all materials.

Starmer doesn't really have a leg to stand on here.

As for Mandelson... Well, it is high time the UK and the Rest of the World had a rest from his involvement in politics, economics, and diplomacy.