[quote=Slacks post_id=21142 time=1728463044 user_id=68][color=#008000]Israel's 'plan' seems to be to continue keeping its foot on the Palestinian throat to prevent it wriggling free too much. Not really sustainable in the long-term and if they continue like this they won't be able to count on long term support either.[/color]

[/quote]

Well, the one thing we all understand about "plans" is that they very rarely survive contact with Reality.

At best, political, economic, strategic and tactical necessities will morph the "plan" into something that barely resembles anything that its original creators intended; much less have come even close to achieving the plan's original purpose.

I feel very strongly that right now, the only "plan" that Benjamin Netanyahu, senior members of the governing coalition of Israel that he leads, and the senior officers of the Israeli military he commands have, is "Survival at All Costs".

There is (and can be) no truthful declaration by the Israeli Government of its strategic purpose with regards to Palestine and Palestinians.

Despite the inarguable fact that Everyone knows already what the Israeli Government's strategic purpose is for Palestine and Palestinians.

The problem here is not that the Israeli Government is lying about its intentions towards Palestine, but that too many other governments in the World continue to pretend that the Israeli Government is not lying.

Led, of course, by every successive governmental administration of the United States since 1967.

Now any civilised government that is not in thrall (or in financial debt) to the U.S. Government has adopted an official diplomatic position of condemnation of the Israeli Government's actions in Palestine. And even some of the formerly more-obedient Western governments (including the United Kingdom) have now shifted position from unequivocal, un-challengeable support for the Israeli Government.

But very few Western governments - and especially (and most egregiously) the U.S. Government - are challenging the Israeli Government's current efforts to ignite World War Three.

As for the rest of us mere mortals, the numbers of us who *DO* still believe that the Israeli Government is *NOT* lying about its strategic purpose with regards to Palestine and Palestinians is dwindling. Partly in response to the horrors unleashed on Palestinians by the Israeli Government over the last 12 months; but mostly because of the greater availability of information and first-hand testimony about exactly what life is like for Palestinians under Israeli military occupation and assault.

And where the United States' Government has been the Israeli Government's military, economic and diplomatic banker for the last half-century, the USG is currently not in very good shape. On-going U.S. support for Israel's current situation is not high on the priority lists of an increasing number of U.S. voters.

So Netanyahu & Co. can only be in pure survival mode.

What else, when it comes down to it, could they hope to achieve from the current position they have placed themselves, Israel and Israelis in?

Survival is the best outcome Netanyahu and his colleagues (and therefore, Israel and Israelis) can now hope for.

All other outcomes apart from Survival are now impossible to achieve.

If there is anything like an intermediate strategic objective for Netanyahu at the moment, then it seems increasingly apparent to all that it is an intention to ignite the entire region into a violent conflict, which will inevitably draw in the "major powers" of the Human World.

I think that both the Israeli and U.S. Governments have a death-grip on a balloon that is getting higher and higher.

With still too much wilful ignorance in our World, it is not clear how the situation we humans have created in the Middle East of our Planet will resolve.

It only seems very, very clear that this final resolution will come very soon.Not sure if "waiting to see what happens now" counts as a plan?