In Reply To #12

In Reply To #10

If you had read 1984 (assuming you have) you would have noticed the regime of Oceania (the main "regime" of the books location) is more akin to a liberal socialism than anything the Bush administration has done.

Jeez, who rattled your fucking chain?

And what the fuck are you talking about now?

All I did was ask Foota if he'd read "1984", I didn't make or suggest any comparisons between the ideologies described in it and those of Bush Administration supporters. I actually asked him about "1984" because I was struck by the Double-speak nature of the article he posted that's all.

As for your doubleplusungood list of fallacies in my "ideology of 'right'"... Well, nothing like going off half-cocked is there?

Whilst I hesitate to get into a discussion on one of the finest works of political satire with an individual who can clearly barely grasp the enormity of the subject matter, I feel obliged to state the following.

George Orwell was against all forms of Totalitarianism, regardless of the underlying (and by his measure, ALWAYS irrelevant and superfluous) ideology. Remember that his experiences during the Spanish Civil War, and in World War Two had given him an almost phobic aversion to the Totalitarianism he saw Fascism produce.

But like I say, he was against Totalitarianism in all its forms, and broadly (and generally accepted by scholars), "1984" was his anti-Totalitarian Fascist work.

Remember "Big Brother"? That's quite a key element of the book. Well, remember how everyone had to be - or had to appear to be - subservient to "Big Brother"? Well, that's because the defining characteristic of Fascism is subservience to the State, whatever the State demands.

And "Animal Farm" was Orwell's anti-Totalitarian Communist work. Remember how the egalitarian idea of communitarianism becomes the corrupted form we know as Communism? It is corrupted by the pigs' need to control and centralise everything; to direct and dominate things, all the while trying to convince the other animals of how their (the pigs') rising importance was vital to the well-being of all.

The central issue at the heart of both novels is not the flawed ideologies we choose to govern ourselves with; but the inherently corrupting process of vesting power over the many, into the hands of the few.

The obvious lesson is that it is not a question of centralising control of the Economy, the means of production, the social welfare of citizens, or even (especially?) the Law; it is a question - actually, a necessity - to decentralise and disperse political power and authority.

Orwell makes clear in both novels that devolving the power and responsibility over our own lives to others, has as much a corrupting influence on our own lives, as it does upon those to whom we gift that power over us.

So tell me Holyman, where in all the non-conservative circles is a left-wing org/country/person that is flawless in everything and shines out among history? Where is it? Doesnt exist thats right.

It isn't about Left or Right ideologies anymore, I'm not sure that it ever was, Orwell certainly didn't seem to think so.

It is about how we choose to identify ourselves as individuals, distinct from a greater collective, not with what or with whom we need to identify.

You clearly have little or no sense of Self-Identity. That is, you don't know who you are in isolation. You must ally yourself with an ideology or flag, and then march lockstep with other supporters of that ideology, and fight a one-sided War with those against whom you are told to defend yourself.

In your case that means that you don't have a really clear grasp of the full spectrum of human political ideologies, but have "decided" (it has been decided for you?) that you are, what is it: "Conservative"?; "Neo-Conservative"?; "Republican"?; "Right-Wing"? Or is it just primary colours with you? Do you just press the Red button when you get the chance every other year?

I'm sorry PCNC Guy, but you're way out of your depth with me, and if we were to continue a dialogue, it can only descend into rancour brought about mainly by the massive gulf in difference between our intellects.

You're banging your gong in your "conservative circles" (presumably because it means people pick on you less) and you've got it into your head that I'm in some way your opposite number, that I must be a, uh, "non-conservative", or "Liberal", or "Democrat", or "Left-Wing", or someone who presses the Blue button.

I really don't mean this as an insult, but I don't think you are equipped to understand what I believe about Human Social Democracy. Just as you clearly don't understand what George Orwell believed about same.

How about you and I just agree to spats over historical facts and inaccuracies?

Believe it or not, by this stage in this post to you, I don't want to insult, bully or even offend you. I think you've got the wrong end of the stick, both about what you think I believe in politics, and what my purpose is in discussing these issues on this forum.

If I continue this dialogue with you, I'll slip into denigrating you more forcefully than I've done so far. And whilst that might be entertaining for the observers, it isn't going to leave either of us feeling very good about ourselves.

And there's no real purpose to doing that, is there?

So with respect, I'll leave it there, and just say that no group, culture  or nation in History has yet created a society that is flawless in Everything and shines out among all other attempts. But that doesn't mean we should settle for the least bad version so far created.

It just means we have to keep working a little while longer, until we have created, something new that WILL stand above all other attempts.

That's why it isn't about Right and Left anymore; it is about Backwards or Forwards.

Peace