[quote="Junior-IRL"][color=#008080]The media has a lot to answer for in creating this divisiveness, here's a link to the BBC showing Trump supporters who are being perfectly reasonable about the election.  Perhaps if the media had spent the last 4 years showing reasonable people on the left & right instead of showing the lunatic outliers then things wouldn't have gotten so far out of hand.  These people just have a different point of view,  they are not your enemies.[/color][/quote]

Word.

But here's the Thing:

Humanity is currently gripped in a Culture of Blame that really isn't helping anyone.

Identifying responsibility for a particular situation or event is a necessary step for improvement and response. But simply casting blame around at non-specific targets isn't very practical.

"The Media" is as amorphous a definition of a group of people as "Government", "Politicians" and "Bankers" (to name a few). And about as useful.

And our beliefs about "The Media" and why it is a feature of Human Existence are just as fractal.

Let's break it down:

Can we agree that the core function of "The Media" - it's [i]raison d'être[/i] - is to disseminate information?

For most of the Human Experience, that was a job performed by travelling minstrels, royal tribunes and clerics. But as literacy improved and mechanical printing presses became more widely available, it was a role taken up by "News" organisations.

Therefore, "The Media", as we understand the term, doesn't really come into being until the early 20th Century.

And almost immediately, this new function is identified by power-seekers as a powerful tool for the widespread manipulation of public perceptions and (therefore) opinions.

"Citizen Kane", generally considered to be one of the greatest films ever made, is about a powerful "Press Baron", and there is a clear and unbroken line between William Randolph Hearst and Rupert Murdoch.

At least up to the point that the Mass Media met its nemesis: the Internet.

The Internet precludes the need for an intermediate function to disseminate "News". These days, anything of note that happens pretty much anywhere in the World, is going to be widely known by most of the Human World within hours, if not minutes.

That has really fucked the printed media, that is hobbled by the 24-hour latency inherent in printing and distribution. And it has had a similar impact on television news that now finds it faster and cheaper to use footage captured by people on their phones, than sending their own teams to cover "News" events.

So where does that leave "The Media"?

Well, there is a conceit that "The Media" exists to hold powerful organisations (governments and corporations mostly) and individuals to account, by investigating and reporting their misdeeds, and by "Speaking Truth to Power".

But this function is neutralised by the simple fact that most "News" organisations are for-profit enterprises, privately-owned by individuals every bit as powerful as those they claim to be monitoring.

It is beyond inarguable that someone like Rupert Murdoch trades his ability to influence hundreds of millions of people - and Murdoch is just the most prominent and notorious of the World's "Press Barons".

But here's the thing: Murdoch (et al) is not to blame for anything other than being Rupert Murdoch.

He is running a commercial enterprise, with the expressed motivation of making himself (and his shareholders) lots of money, and to wield as much socio-political power as he can maintain.

We all know this.

So just as there isn't much point blaming bankers for being and behaving like bankers, or politicians for being politicians, there isn't much purpose in blaming "Media Barons" for being and behaving like "Media Barons".

These people are going to continue to behave according to their dispositions for as long as the rest of us continue to participate with and enable them.

To my mind, it is analogous to individuals exploiting bugs and glitches in a multi-player computer game.

There are certain players who, upon discovering a bug or glitch will exploit it for their own competitive advantage. And as much as the rest of the player-base might criticise those exploiters for having a different moral perspective, the problem isn't going to go away until the bug or glitch is fixed.

We *CAN* blame Rupert Murdoch for being Rupert Murdoch, if it makes us feel better... But he's never going to stop being Rupert Murdoch, because he can't. Just as you or I can't stop being ourselves. Or just as Donald Trump can't stop being Donald Trump. (The List is endless...)

"The Media" these days exists primarily to (try and) make money. And that is getting more and more difficult with each passing day. So "News" reporting is becoming more and more sensationalised, more and more emotive, and more and more irresponsible... As it fights for its own survival.

Instead of blaming "The Media", all we really need to do is recognise it for what it is - what it has become - and consider how we can insulate ourselves from its increasingly negative characteristics.

And I think that is just a matter of remaining conscious at all times that when we digest information created and supplied for mass consumption, the primary intention is not to inform, but to manipulate our perception.

We do all know this at some level. We just need to maintain a heightened understanding of it at all times.

Because if we don't, we will only have ourselves to blame.