In Reply To #33

We are not talking about international legitimacy.

Fair enough.

We are simply talking about how the application of offensive violence, can sometimes save lives and keep the peace.

Alright, let's really define the difference between offensive and defensive violence, on an international scale, so offensive and defensive "War" essentially.

Defensive War

If a nation is attacked by a violent force, and it uses violence, to mitigate the damage to its own citizens, infrastructure and Society; and ideally to repel and neutralise the attack: then it is using violence in a defensive capacity. During the course of its Defensive War, the Nation uses strategic military actions to defend itself and its People. This might include offensive military operations against the attacking force.

When the British bombed the Ruhr Dam, with the "Dam Busters" and their "Bouncing Bomb", that was offensive violence, used in a defensive capacity. It was an offensive attack, used as part of a strategy to hinder Germany's ability to attack it.

When the Israelis launched their pre-emptive strike against the gathering Arab forces, it used offensive violence in a defensive capacity. The awesome Israeli strike that began the Six Day War, was an example of offensive violence being used in a pre-emptively defensive capacity.

When National military forces are mandated to engage in a U.N. Peacekeeping Operation, their SOLE purpose is to protect civilian populations, by policing International Law.

Where U.N. Peacekeeping Forces have been authorised and mandated to use offensive violence to curtail or eradicate the threat to the civilian populations, and the breaches of International Law, then they would be using violence in a defensive capacity: defending the civilians and International Law.

But such is the disunity in Human Politics, that no U.N. Peacekeeping Force has ever been permitted to possess any real teeth. And I'm sorry Foota, but the obstructions to the formation of effective U.N. Peacekeeping Forces, nearly always comes from the U.S. Who naturally see the formation of an effective U.N. Policing Operation, as a threat to its own position as self-nominated "World's Policeman".

Offensive War

If a nation chooses to attack another nation that is posing no imminent or likely threat to the attacking nation's security: then that is an offensive War. If a nation chooses to attack another nation to advance its own geo-political ambitions, then that is offensive War.

Nazi Germany's Invasions of Poland, Czechoslovakia and France (amongst others), are all examples of Offensive War.

Saddam Hussein's Invasion of Kuwait was an Offensive War.

After World War Two, the post-War U.S. Government was successful in drafting the U.N. Charter, and getting support for it from all the Nations of the World.

[The U.N. Charter] refers to the act of military invasion as a war crime, specifically referring to starting or waging war against the integrity, independence, or sovereignty of a territory or state, or else a military violation of relevant international treaties, agreements or legally binding assurance.

An important exception to the forgoing are defensive military actions taken under Article 51 of the UN Charter. Such defensive actions are subject to immediate Security Council review, but do not require UN permission to be legal within international law."Nothing in the present Charter shall impair the inherent right of individual or collective self-defence if an armed attack occurs against a Member of the United Nations." (UN Charter, Article 51) The Security Council will determine if the action is legally the "right of individual or collective self-defence", or it may appoint another UN organ to do this.

The definition of crimes against peace was first incorporated into the Nuremberg Principles and later included in the United Nations Charter. This definition would play a part in defining aggression as a war crime.

Definition

No legal authority exists for the definition of the terms "territorial integrity", "political independence" and "sovereignty". However, their face value would seem to disclose the following:

a - The "territorial integrity" rule means that it is a crime of aggression to use armed force with intent permanently to deprive a state of any part or parts of its territory, not excluding territories for the foreign affairs of which it is responsible;

b - The "political independence" rule means that it is a crime of aggression to use armed force with intent to deprive a state of the entirety of one or more of the prerequisites of statehood, namely: defined territory, permanent population, constitutionally independent government and the means of conducting relations with other States;

c - The "sovereignty" rule means that it is a crime of aggression to use armed force with intent to overthrow the government of a state or to impede its freedom to act unhindered, as it sees fit, throughout its jurisdiction.

Wikipedia

Article 2, paragraph 4 of the U.N. Charter states:

"All Members shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state, or in any other manner inconsistent with the Purposes of the United Nations."

Article 33 states:

"The parties to any dispute, the continuance of which is likely to endanger the maintenance of international peace and security, shall, first of all, seek a solution by negotiation, enquiry, mediation, conciliation, arbitration, judicial settlement, resort to regional agencies or arrangements, or other peaceful means of their own choice.

The Security Council shall, when it deems necessary, call upon the parties to settle their dispute by such means."

Article 39 states:

"The Security Council shall determine the existence of any threat to the peace, breach of the peace, or act of aggression and shall make recommendations, or decide what measures shall be taken in accordance with Articles 41 and 42, to maintain or restore international peace and security."

Now like it or not Foota, not only is the U.S. the AUTHOR of the U.N. Charter, it is also a signatory. If the current U.S. Government feels constrained by the U.N. Charter, then it is Constitutionally bound to propose amendments to it, and have those amendments accepted by the International Communities.

But since you insist that this is impossible - because of the "Totalitarians" - then the U.S. Government is then Constitutionally obliged to formally withdraw the U.S. as a signatory to the U.N. Charter.

That the U.S. first devised... (Did I mention that already?)

Otherwise, a breach of the U.N. Charter is a breach of U.S. Law, and Congress is obliged to impeach the President.

But look at me! I started mentioning the U.N. Charter as a way of defining "Offensive War", and I'm back at legitimacy...

Would it have gone against your pacifism if the UN Peacekeepers were preemptively targeting warlords in Somalia as opposed to simply guarding UN caravans?

Or do they need to be shot at first?

Politically, Diplomatically, Strategically, Legitimately: yes, they need to be shot at first.

Seeing who fired first is how you tell the Good Guys from the Bad Guys Foota.

Once that first shot has been fired by the Bad Guy though...

But understand Foota that it is not U.N. Peacekeeping (Police) Forcess' job to punish: their job is solely to protect - however that is best achieved.

Let's try an analogy:

Pick any city in the United States. Now, look at that city in terms of its neighbourhoods. And now, imagine that one of those neighbourhoods is in the grip of Gang Violence, where civilians are getting hurt.

Who do you send in? The Police? Or the strongest Gang from the strongest neighbourhood?

That's how the Rest of the World sees the U.S. Invasion of Iraq Foota.

Saddam Hussein was certainly a criminal, and a blight on his neighbourhood; difficult to say if he was the worst or not, but he was certainly a bad apple. But instead of the Police being sent in, to uphold International Law: the U.S. "Mafia" sent its goons in instead. And guess what: the U.S. "Gang" created a Charnel House - created more problems than it solved.

And that would be an example of an Offensive War Foota.

Iraq posed no direct or immediate threat to the United States of America.

Choosing to invade Iraq - and unleash Hell - was an act of offensive aggression on the part of the United States.

And that is just the kind of thing that a Pacifist like me objects to.

Peace