In Reply To #7

In Reply To #2

Violence is never effective, except when used in legitimate self-defence.

Violence simply fails to achieve *ANYTHING* it ever sets out to achieve; is hopelessly unpredictable and uncontrollable once started; is virtually impossible for the one who started it to stop it without a never arriving (and usually implausible) COMPLETE VICTORY; and always, always, *ALWAYS*, does more harm than good.

Which is it Holyman?

In the first sentence above you say violence can be effective in self defense.

But then go on to say that violence fails to achieve anything and "always, always, *ALWAYS*" does more harm then good.

Seriously Foota?

After that exposition of my Pacifism: THAT'S^^^ the best you can come up with?

Tell me Foota...

On a scale where I am at zero; SomeGuy is at minus ten; Noam Chomsky is at plus five; and God at plus ten: how MORE or LESS intelligent than me, do you think you are?

Do you really think that I would hold such a well-defined position on Pacifism, but not notice a glaring inconsistency, like the one you have described above?

Oh Damn! You got me Foota! There it is! Why didn't I see it? Of course... My whole position is bankrupt... Uh... NOT!

Are you really THAT specious, that you're going to pretend that I didn't go to great lengths to clearly delineate between (Self-)defensive and offensive violence?

Having read my exposition, in all its objective glory, the ONLY response you can come up with, is to try and identify an inconsistency that really isn't there.

Do you REALLY not understand the difference between offensive and defensive violence?

Or do you really just not want to?

You know, anyone with a brain half the size of mine, who didn't believe in the position I expounded, would respond with an exposition of their OWN position; and then attempt to show the superiority of their position.

That's not you though, is it?

Or is that you CAN'T construct an intellectual position that supports the use of offensive violence to settle disputes?

In Reply To #10

In Reply To #2

The *WHOLE* of the United States, is settled on Land taken WHOLLY from its native population, using violence to kill 40 million human beings.

Built on such sacred burial ground, it is understandable why the United States of America seems to be the last remaining Nation still believing in the efficacy of War.

I empathize with much of what you said.  This quoted part puzzles me though.  Are not most nations or territories where they are by the same methods somewhere in their history? How are we different from much of the world in this sense other than we are the most recent and possibly the last to do so?

Similar to the slave situation.  Slavery existed many times over the amount of time it has been abolished.  The entire world partook of it and saw it as a normal part of life.

Now the destruction of the natives here is a lamentable thing and as our world has changed it is no longer an accepted method of advancement, but once again if this is our roots and it caused us to be how we are, why is anyone else any different?

I think because with the possible exception of Australia, it is difficult to point to any other former European (or Asian) colony, where the destruction of the native population has been so complete, so systematically carried out, and so disregarded by the present-day descendants of the colonists who carried out the destruction, as North America.

Countries in South America are probably closest, but the scale of the "cleansing" of colonial conquests, was nowhere near as complete. And indeed, native South Americans have a much greater degree of political representation in current society, than in North America. The President of Bolivia for example, Evo Morales, is a native South American.

You mention slavery Drew, and I think that's the key to understanding the difference in Histories between "New World" colonies, and established European and Asian societies.

You are right that many (if not many, then all) nations throughout History have established and expanded their territory through violence. But virtually without exception, these societies chose to enslave, rather than destroy the humans who inhabited the land invaded and colonised.

You see this all the way from the Persians, through the Greeks, Romans, Mongols, Turks, to the French, British and Belgians in Africa in the 18th Century.

What took place in North America though, is unprecedented in Human History.

40 million human lives (give or take) were systematically destroyed by mostly British, but also German, French and Spanish colonists.

This, I believe, because Native American Culture meant that enslavement of Native Americans was all but impossible.

So the Native Americans were cleared off the land, as surely as a pest infestation is exterminated. And slaves were brought over from Africa, to work the Land according to European agricultural principles instead.

It isn't that "you" are the most recent, and/or hopefully the last to engage in such behaviour: it is both the SCALE of the devastation wrought on the Native American population by European Colonists; and the fact that those who carried out the Genocide, were supposed to be at the pinnacle of Human Civilisation.

Now, I only brought up the Native American Holocaust Drew, because I was attempting to peer into the Collective American Psyche that believes so strongly in the efficacy of organised and offensive violence.

Dealing with a National Psychology is no mean feat, and it *CERTAINLY* isn't a scientific exercise.

But I do think that at a subconscious level, European colonists today are living in the United States atop a grisly and profane monument to what CAN be achieved through relentless and unmitigated violence.

And maybe this contributes to the violent nature of American Society.

In Reply To #21

Holyman, I don't know a great deal of history around WWII, is it true that alot of British noblemen had businesses and assets in USA, which they had to self off to raise funding for the war against Germany?

So in a wierd way, USA made a break out of WWII?

Well, in more of an ACTUAL way, yes, the USA got a HUGE break from WWII.

In 1939, the U.S. ranked 19th in the league of World Military Powers, with the Great European Powers heading that league, with the British Empire at the top (with Nazi Germany snapping at Britannia's heels).

The 1930's were not at all kind to the United States, what with the Great Depression and the Dust Bowl and all.

By the time of the outbreak of War in Europe, the primarily agricultural Economy of the U.S. was more or less dormant. What industrial capacity there was, had more or less been mothballed, for lack of consumers with funds to buy industrial output.

With the outbreak of War in Europe, the U.S. Government recognised a Golden Opportunity: America's defunct industrial capacity could be re-tooled to produce armaments, weapons and vehicles, which could then be sold to those European and Asian nations who were fighting off German and Japanese aggression.

In March 1941, a full nine months before Pearl Harbour, the U.S. Government began the "Lend-Lease" programme, to supply War materiel to Great Britain, France, the Soviet Union, China and other allied nations.

Between March 1941, and V-J Day in 1945, the U.S. SOLD and shipped nearly three-quarters of a trillion dollars (in today's prices) of War Materiel to "Allied" Nations.

All of it on "Hire-Purchase", or "Lay-away" payment terms - at roughly a 2% interest rate.

The United Kingdom made its final payment of £83 million, for the assistance sold to it by the United States during WWII, on December 31st, 2006.

The Lend-Lease Programme was the primary (but by no means sole) means by which the wealth of the British Empire (and other nations) was transferred to the U.S. during and after WWII.

Further inputs to the U.S.'s Economic strength were made by German and Japanese War reparations; and by the Japanese and West German governments continuing to pay the U.S. to have American troops stationed in their respective countries.

Whilst Europe and Asia were economically and physically devastated by the effects of World War Two, the continental United States remained completely untouched, and able to reap immense profits from the World being at War.

Had it not been for the massive transfer of wealth to the U.S. during World War Two, America today would be no different to Canada, Australia or New Zealand.

It certainly would not be the Imperial Superpower it has become.

Peace