In Reply To #24

Holyman, despite your 10,000 word essay, you really did not give me much to work with.  Nearly half your post was just another tedious anti-American diatribe about us raping the world and being addicted to violence.

Well, you could have worked with the other more than half then, couldn't you?

Or, you could have described YOUR OWN position, and explained why you feel that offensive violence as a means of settling disputes IS something you support.

BTW - an obvious example where offensive (preemptive) violence would have been moral and saved lives is if Europe would have gone after Hitler in the late 1930's.

Don't be silly Foota.

The Defender nearly always has an advantage in Warfare.

Had the British and French invaded Germany pre-emptively, the hugely powerful Nazi War Machine would have just ground down the attacking forces to a mush. And having defenestrated the only viable military opposition to it, Nazi Germany would have counter-struck and over-run Britain as easily as it did France.

Chamberlain didn't appease Hitler because he trusted him: he did it because he didn't have an alternative.

The History of the British Expeditionary Force at Dunkirk should tell you that.

Another example would have been if the UN intervened in Rwanda.

Another example would have been if the UN intervened in Darfur.

Nope: they would have been or would be Internationally Mandated Police Actions, intended to defend the civilian populations from further harm.

Like the U.N. action against Iraq in Kuwait.

The United Nations as you very well know, is not a sovereign and national entity: it is a representative body of all Nations.

It has no military capability of its own.

When nations allow their military forces to work under a U.N. Mandate, their combined military forces become an internationally legitimate Police Force.

When a nation like the U.S. invades Iraq, or threatens to invade Iran, because that is what the political manifesto of its ruling Party calls for: that is offensive violence intended to settle an intra-national dispute; and coincidentally expand the U.S.'s military presence at the heart of the World's energy producing region.

There is a very clear distinction Foota.

And only the most intellectually bankrupt would not allow their Self to see it.

Peace