Just so's we know what we're all talking about.

From Wikipedia:

Pacifism is the opposition to war or violence as a means of settling disputes or gaining advantage. Pacifism covers a spectrum of views ranging from the belief that international disputes can and should be peacefully resolved; to calls for the abolition of the institutions of the military and war; to opposition to any organization of society through governmental force (anarchist or libertarian pacifism); to rejection of the use of physical violence to obtain political, economic or social goals; to opposition to violence under any circumstance, including defense of self and others.

Pacifism may be based on moral principles (a deontological view) or pragmatism (a consequentialist view). Principled pacifism holds that at some point along the spectrum from war to interpersonal physical violence, such violence becomes morally wrong. Pragmatic pacifism holds that the costs of war and inter-personal violence are so substantial that better ways of resolving disputes must be found. Pacifists in general reject theories of Just War.

Pacifists follow principles of nonviolence, believing that non-violent action is morally superior and/or pragmatically most effective. Some pacifists, however, support physical violence for emergency defense of self or others. Others support destruction of property in such emergencies or for conducting symbolic acts of resistance like pouring red paint to represent blood on the outside of military recruiting offices or entering air force bases and hammering on military aircraft. However, part of the pacifist belief system is taking responsibility for one's actions by submitting to arrest and using a trial to publicize opposition to war and other forms of violence.

Dove or dovish are informal terms used, especially in politics, for people who prefer to avoid war or prefer war as a last resort. The terms refer to the story of Noah's Ark in which the dove came to symbolize the hope of salvation and peace. Similarly, in common parlance, the opposite of a dove is a hawk or war hawk.

I am a pragmatic Pacifist.

I have no objection to violence per se, other than as a means of settling disputes: personal or political.

I joined the British Army when I was 17, but didn't complete Basic Training because of a perforated ear-drum. And I used to compete in Martial Arts competitions at a National Level, in the Super-Heavyweight class for Combat Sombo (Sambo).

I got no beef with two guys, or two parties, squaring up to each other in a controlled Environment, where nobody who doesn't want to be party to the violence, can get hurt.

It's nothing moral or Spiritual with me.

Nor is it about not believing in Self-Defence.

India and Japan are formally and constitutionally Pacifist Nations: but both maintain a military capability (nuclear in India's case) for self-defence.

I got no problem with self-defence.

My Pacifism is born from a pragmatic reading of History, Current Affairs, Politics, Economics, Sociology, Psychology and Philosophy.

Any attempt to use violence to settle a dispute, inevitably seems to back-fire on the Perpetrator of it.

It seems pretty fucking obvious to me.

Hitler used violence in an offensive capacity to advance his goals, during World War Two: and that ended disastrously for him and Germany.

The U.S. used violence in a defensive capacity during WWII, and it ended up going very well (and very profitably) indeed for the U.S.

The U.S. used violence in a quasi-defensive capacity during the Korean War, and it ended up a no-score draw.

The U.S. used violence in an offensive capacity during the Vietnam War: and that ended disastrously for the U.S.

The U.S. used offensive Iraqi violence against Iran during the Iran-Iraq War: and that ended badly for Iraq, and not so well for the U.S.

The U.N. used violence to defend Kuwait against and repulse the Iraqi Invasion; George Bush Senior did NOT use offensive violence to punish Saddam Hussein (by invading Iraq): and that went very well for the U.S. and Kuwait.

And the U.S. used offensive violence to settle its dispute with Saddam Hussein, in 2003: and that has gone very, very badly for the Bush Administration and the United States of America as a whole.

The Continental United States of America, is made up primarily of land that was either bought from a foreigner - the Louisiana Purchase and Alaska; or taken by violence from a foreigner - the Spanish-American War.

The *WHOLE* of the United States, is settled on Land taken WHOLLY from its native population, using violence to kill 40 million human beings.

Built on such sacred burial ground, it is understandable why the United States of America seems to be the last remaining Nation still believing in the efficacy of War.

*NO OTHER DEVELOPED NATION IS AT PRESENT, THREATENING TO INVADE ANOTHER NATION, OR FAILING TO SUCCESSFULLY OCCUPY THE NATION IT INVADED PREVIOUSLY*

The United States of America stands alone, in the Civilised World, as having military expansionism a core plank of its Foreign Policy.

This is because *EVERYONE ELSE* knows that:

Violence is never effective, except when used in legitimate self-defence.

Violence simply fails to achieve *ANYTHING* it ever sets out to achieve; is hopelessly unpredictable and uncontrollable once started; is virtually impossible for the one who started it to stop it without a never arriving (and usually implausible) COMPLETE VICTORY; and always, always, *ALWAYS*, does more harm than good.

And that's why *I* am a Pacifist.

Peace