[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]So what are you saying Holyman?

Is Musharraf our "puppet" or is it Bhutto?  Both?  If so - damn we are good!  I thought you said the US had no juice left?[/color][/quote]

You're not really up to speed on the situation in Pakistan, are you Foota?

I'll try to keep this as brief as your mind can digest:

Pervez Musharraf came to be President of Pakistan, following a military coup 8 years ago.

Immediately following 9/11, President Musharraf realised that if he didn't immediately ally his self and Pakistan with the United States, then his country would follow Afghanistan into America's cross-hairs.

This is because Pakistan was one of only three national governments that formally recognised the Taliban government of Afghanistan: the other two being Saudi Arabia (they keep cropping up, don't they?) and the United Arab Emirates. And this recognition came from the fact that the Taliban is ethnically Pashtun, like most of Northern Pakistan. Northern Pakistan is where the Taliban originated, and where the resurgent Taliban now operates.

Oh, also, Pakistan is the [b]*ONLY*[/b] nuclear-armed Islamic state in the World: something bound to draw attention from the U.S. in the post-9/11 World.

(Still with me Foota?)

So, against the wishes of the majority of the Pakistani population, and more dangerously, the Pakistan Inter-Services Intelligence agency, President Musharraf sided with the U.S. in the "War on Terror" (as he was compelled to by the U.S. State Department).

From that point onwards, President Musharraf had the Sword of Damocles hoisted above his head, and was required to play a very delicate balancing act.

It suited the United States to have Pakistan onboard, because of its borders with Afghanistan and, oh, look at that: Iran.

Anyhoo, fast forward a few years, and a few U.S. military attacks in Northern Pakistan, and the Damoclean Sword was lowering ever closer to the top of Musharraf's head.

Now if you think the United States is pissed off with the surge in Islamism it has created from Turkey to Iraq, that is nothing compared to the spectre of nuclear-armed Pakistan falling to a Taliban-style Government in Islamabad.

So something had to be done to stabilise the Pakistani Government. And that meant legitimising the Pakistani Government, at least in the eyes of the International Community. Propping up a military dictator in Pakistan, rather undermines the Bush Administration's claims to be promoting "Freedom and Democracy".

Right then: how about restoring the pro-Western and, uh, female ex-Pakistani Prime Minister, Benazir Bhutto to the Presidency?

Well, the plan was that President Musharraf would set aside the Presidency, and retain his position as head of the Pakistani Military. And Ms. Bhutto could then occupy the Presidency, following the result of what I'm sure would have been "Free and Fair" elections.

Problem is that the [b]*REAL*[/b] power-base in Pakistan is neither with President Musharraf's ailing military regime; nor with the exile Benazir Bhutto: it is actually vested in the more or less autonomous tribes in Northern Pakistan, and with the aforementioned ISI.

So once again, the current U.S. State Department's Grand Plans have crumbled to dust in the face of popular Islamic opposition.

Shame really.

What with Pakistan being nuclear-armed and all that...

So, if you managed to keep up with all that Foota, you'll understand that the whole transfer of power from Musharraf to Bhutto was orchestrated by the United States.

Unfortunately, Pervez Musharraf decided at the last minute not to play ball.

And that brings us to the present situation.

In nuclear-armed Pakistan...

(Makes the "Iranian Situation" seem like small potato's, doesn't it?)

[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]Again, going back to the 1990's, what could have been done differently to confront the growing Islamist radicalization (and nuke proliferation) occurring in Pakistan?[/color] [/quote]

Oooh damn! You cut me off before I could use the massive and overwhelming support that the Reagan Administration gave Islamists in Pakistan and Afghanistan, following the Soviet Invasion of Afghanistan in 1980!

Damn! Outmanoeuvred by Foota!

Never mind, you didn't actually ask me what the U.S. could have done differently; you just asked me "what could have been done differently", by anyone I guess.

And that's easy to answer: the same thing that really, really, [b]*REALLY*[/b] needs to be done, really [b]*RIGHT NOW*[/b].

And that is the creation of a Global, Multilateral Council of Humanity, legitimised by International Treaty, building on the strengths of the (American) Ideal of the United Nations; but leaving out the destabilising, de-legitimising and disproportionate status granted to the permanent members of the Security Council.

Imagine if in the United States' Senate, Senators from the States of California, New York and Florida were allowed the power of veto on any motion tabled by Senators from other States.  How do you suppose that would have worked out Foota?

I guess it would make Americans living in non-veto wielding States feel that their best interests could never be represented in the Senate, unless they accorded with the self-interests of the Californians, New Yorkers and Floridians. I guess it would make them feel that the U.S. Senate was a worthless institution.

And what if the Californians fell out with the New Yorkers and Floridians? Would the Californians declare the U.S. Senate corrupt and illegitimate because they couldn't always get their own way, and had to contend with the Totalitarians in New York and Florida?

Oh, right: the Senators would be elected in a way that the Californians would approve of.

Probably...

Still, how about those Rhode Islanders eh? Who do they have to appeal to? The Noble Institution that is the U.S. Senate? Or the Senators of California, New York and Florida?

So, the United Nations, as presently constituted, is a failed institution. This because it is currently constituted on the basis of the way the World was in the 1940's.

It is nothing like a Global Government, and is utterly constrained by the geo-political games played by the "Great Powers [sic]".

So it really needs updating. It needs updating to a genuinely multilateral and pluralistic institution, were no one country can dominate or undermine proceedings.

So why hasn't that happened?

You'd think that in a World unilaterally dominated by the noble and virtuous "Sole Superpower" that is the United States of America, it would have already happened.

Last time the United States stood unopposed in the World, in 1945, it created the United Nations.

In 1990, the Cold War had ended and America stood astride the World like a colossus. And it could have used that position to build upon the foundations of the United Nations and create a truly multilateral Global entity; an entity that would have carried the legitimacy of the International Community, and would have been charged with administering all economic and social aid, and policing World Security.

It would still have been a long way short of a World Government; but it would at least have carried more legitimacy than the United States' unilateralist policies.

It could have legitimately intervened in the India-Pakistan nuclear-arms race; and it would have been able to offer economic inducements to encourage social and political reform in Pakistan.

Instead of "Carrot and Stick"; it would have been "Carrot and No Carrot".

But you've got to give the Carrot first, before a threat to withdraw it can be effective.

There! That's what I'd have done differently in the early 1990's Foota! How'd I do?

My turn now:

What would you have done differently in the early 2000's, to confront the radicalising of Islam, and nuclear proliferation in Pakistan Foota?

Peace