Apart from stating the obvious - that EvilFitch is a complete tool, who looks at History upside-down and back to front - it is difficult to know where to start responding to most of the drivel that's poured across this thread.

I think that the big problem is that we are culturally educated to side with one party to a conflict, or another.

It is clearly impossible to resolve the Arab-Israeli situation if one begins from a subjective viewpoint. Even tacit moral support for one side or the other inhibits our ability to conceive of or create a solution. The Truth is that as in any conflict, an arbitrary 3rd Party is required to settle differences, and if necessary, impose a solution.

In so-called "Civilised" Society, that 3rd Party is supposed to be Lady Justice, the Guardian of the Law. Blind to influence and weighing only the balance of Action against Law; Justice is meant to be our independent standard, incorruptible and coercion-proof.

But the Law doesn't seem to apply in the Middle East: to Anyone.

Therefore it is beholden upon those of us who share neither religious, ethnic or cultural heritage with the parties in Conflict, to create a Solution that can be practically applied, and which will be practically effective.

At the moment, the government of the United States of America responds to the conflict between Arabs and Israelis, by arming Israel more heavily, and sponsoring and promoting civil strife within the Palestinian Authority and the wider Arab Middle East.

This is not in dispute: even with our neighbourhood Brownshirts.

And the United Nations responds by reminding Israel of its international legal obligations - UNSC Resolution 242 et al - and by trying to insert multinational Peacekeeping forces to keep the warring factions apart. The United States begrudgingly permits a United Nations Peacekeeping Force to exist in Southern Lebanon (though not Northern Israel), to keep Lebanese based forces from attacking Israel - the United Nations Force In Lebanon is not mandated to or capable of keeping Israel from attacking Lebanon.

Along with the UK, France, Russia, Germany, China, Syria and Iran, the government of the United States continues to take sides in various Middle Eastern conflicts, using economic and military support to bolster whichever party to the local conflict best represents its interests.

This is not an attempt to resolve the conflict amicably and equitably; but an attempt to ensure that one side totally dominates the other.

This is not how to resolve a Conflict.

A United Nations enforced arms embargo on the whole region would be a good place to start. With that embargo being implemented and enforced at source: the arms manufacturers. But the United States can only get Russia and China to stop manufacturing arms that ultimately arrive in Arab hands, if it is willing to stop manufacturing arms that immediately arrive in Israeli hands. This is not something that the United States is willing to do.

So this first practical - and rather obvious - step remains untaken in the Middle East, as it does in most areas of conflict throughout the World.

In Truth, the United States is as much a party to the Arab-Israeli Conflict as Israel is; the UK and France as much a part of the problem as Saudi Arabia.

Clearly, there is a conflict of interest, and any government or organisation with such an apparent conflict of interests, must be disqualified from participating in the development of a solution to the Arab-Israeli Conflict.

The United States of America is clearly as much a part of the Arab-Israeli Conflict as Israel. The U.S. provides unconditional diplomatic and political support for Israel, and Israel is the number one recipient of U.S. economic and military aid. The number two recipient of U.S. economic and military aid, is Egypt, an Arab nation; dominated by a Dictator-for-Life, and more or less the Crucible that produced the Muslim Brotherhood. The U.S. also uncritically supports and aids Arab dictators in Jordan, and of course, Saudi Arabia.

In other words, the United States of America funds both sides of the Arab-Israeli Conflict.

And the United States of America insists that it can be the only arbiter to approve a solution to the Arab-Israeli Conflict.

One of the most critical - though by no means rare - errors that EvilFitch makes, is to try and suggest that the United States' support for Israel has been there throughout the existence of Modern Israel. Of course, we non-revisionist Historians understand that until the Six Day War in 1967, the post-War governments of the U.S. had all favoured and supported Arab Nationalists. They had little or no sympathy for Israel and Israelis, whose socialist tendencies and significant Russian émigré population inclined them more towards the Soviet Union, than the United States.

Only after Israel's lightning victory against, essentially, Pan-Arabic Nationalist forces, did US policy in the region begin to shift towards supporting Israel. Not quickly enough of course, not quick enough to prevent the United States voting FOR UNSC Resolution 242; nor even quickly enough to not vote for six more years of censure resolutions against Israel, before the Yom Kippur War finally saw the United States move to unconditional support for Israel.

(Though Egypt remains the No. 2 recipient of U.S. Aid... Did I mention that already?)

NB. To EvilFitch: if you insist on trying to refute that point I've made, don't waste your time attempting a line-by-line negation of each clause of the argument: simply present your own argument. Which if you wish to oppose my argument, must be an argument that supports the following statement:

United States Policy towards Israel did NOT change significantly between 1965 and 1975.

Because:.............................................................................................................................

Right then, clearly the United States is as guilty of prolonging the Arab-Israeli Conflict, as the Arab and Israeli governments are. As are - to the best of my knowledge - the governments of: the UK, France, Germany, Japan, South Korea, Spain, Italy, The Netherlands, Belgium probably..., Russia, China, Iran, Turkey, Pakistan, Australia (ffs!), Canada, South Africa, and formerly, Greece. And probably a handful of others.

Point is, that countries like Paraguay, Surinam, Fiji, Jamaica (no, of her own accord), Norway, Estonia, and unfortunately, probably only a handful of others, do NOT have any interest in resolving the Arab-Israeli Conflict in favour of one party or the other.

Therefore, THEY should be the ones given the responsibility to resolve the Conflict.

(This isn't really Geo-Political Science you know: it's how juries are picked... For heaven's sake.)

These are representative Human Beings, who can be called upon to adjudicate a (significant) Human Conflict, without Fear of Favour. They can be called upon to hear evidence for and against various solutions, but with only one aim in mind: to decide upon the most practical and effective solution.

It isn't about redressing the grievances that have been produced in this Conflict; it is about finding a solution to end the Conflict, so that no more grievances are incurred.

Resolution of the grievances can only be achieved within a state of Peace. If one or both parties to the Conflict can not agree a state of Peace between them, then it is beholden upon TRULY 3rd Parties to the Conflict to agree, and if necessary, impose a solution.

Virtually every society in the World is affected to one degree or another by the Arab-Israeli Conflict. We should stop looking to the parties to that Conflict - including the United States and many of the "Developed" Countries - to effect a solution.

Since clearly, they stand to gain or lose, depending on which side to the Conflict is advantaged or disadvantaged by an effective and practical solution.

Peace