In Reply To #84

Sorry mate. I really tried. But I only got about half way through your turgid prose.

Sorry: I really thought I could do it at the beginning, but my attention just waned right off about half way down.

You do realise that in a debate with someone, it is a good idea to try and think about what they're thinking of, don't you? You're at a real disadvantage if you only consider what's going on in your own mind.

Hey-hoo. Just a few points then that I did manage to pick out before I dropped off:

I think that the big problem is that we are culturally educated to side with one party to a conflict, or another.

You think wrong.  There are plenty of instances where I, and many, many others, will side with the side that is in the RIGHT rather than someone we know such as America or Britain or, as you, imply, "fellow white people." I was educated to side with the truth regardless of the color of the person speaking said truth.  Fact is worth more to me than your opinion.

See what I mean about your being a complete tool?

I make the point that it is problematic that we are culturally educated to pick sides. You begin by telling me I "think wrong"; and then proceed to tell me how you "...and many, many others" will pick sides, and how you were educated to do so.

Tell me, can you think of any cultures where people are educated to ping the WRONG side (as their culture sees it)?

You know: "As a Culture, we Believe this is Right, and this is Wrong: you must all learn to pick the Wrong thing".

I can't imagine such cultures make much of an impact on general Human Society; maybe 'ts why I've not heard of one.

BTW, try not to feel the need to prevaricate or defend this particular observation EvilFitch, it's just an example of the way your mind works - i.e. is indicative of your general "tool-ness".

The Truth is that as in any conflict, an arbitrary 3rd Party is required to settle differences, and if necessary, impose a solution

That is not the truth; that is your own ignorant opinion pushed off as fact.

See what I mean?

At the moment, the government of the United States of America responds to the conflict between Arabs and Israelis, by arming Israel more heavily, and sponsoring and promoting civil strife within the Palestinian Authority and the wider Arab Middle East.

They are an ally of the United States of America.  The P.A. are not.  The P.A. are, or were until they dissolved their government, run by a TERRORIST ORGINIZATION.

Since Israel is an ally of the United States, and the Palestinian Authority is not, why does America try to portray itself as some kind of neutral authority in the Conflict - and try to play the role of a neutral authority in the Conflict - when clearly at every step it is going to be looking out for the interests of its ally.

The United States can play no further part in mediating the Arab-Israeli Conflict.

This is not an attempt to resolve the conflict amicably and equitably; but an attempt to ensure that one side totally dominates the other

Israel has made more effort to resolve this conflict amicably and equitably but the opposing side does not Freedom, Liberty, or Peace.  They have shown this through their actions.

Therefore Israel has decided it must totally dominate the Palestinians.

In the last 40 years, Israel has killed considerably more Palestinians, than Palestinians have killed Israelis. Israel clearly has the upper hand militarily - what with its 21st Century U.S. arsenal, and oh yes, those nukes - and Palestinians are forced to desperate measures just to get themselves noticed.

It is Israel that seeks the total domination of Palestinians.

In other words, the United States of America funds both sides of the Arab-Israeli Conflict.

No shit Sherlock.  We also know that Israel has no intention to take over the Middle East so we fund Arabs who cannot handle the kit we sell them (S.A. relies on westerners to maintain their air force and infrastructure and Egypt is stuck in the same old Arab mire that makes for the WORST kind of soldiers).

Tool.

One of the most critical - though by no means rare - errors that EvilFitch makes, is to try and suggest that the United States' support for Israel has been there throughout the existence of Modern Israel.

Feel free to show where I ever made the suggestion that the United States gave the full support to Israel from the British Mandate of Palestine.

You can't because I didn't.  Try reading you ignorant mook.

In Reply To #60

The Jews saw an opportunity to get a state of their own; the state of Israel.  The British and Americans at the time decided to go for it.  The Jews get a state of their own and the British and Americans get a key ally in the Middle East.  Remember the politics of the time:  the U.S.S.R. was swiping Real Estate and loyalties in the M.E. faster than we could respond.

Which if you wish to oppose my argument, must be an argument that supports the following statement:

United States Policy towards Israel did NOT change significantly between 1965 and 1975.

What argument have you made?  The French provided military assistance to Israel and I would hardly call them a staunch ally of Israel today.  Are you trying to argue that the United States is somehow hypocritical and thus in no position to say anything on the matter because we support the state of Israel far more today than we did 40 years ago?

Wimp tool.

And sorry mate, but that was really about as far as I can manage - I think I did quite well!

I think your main problem EvilFitch - aside from your fundamentally un-likeable personality of course - is that you know a bit about History, but you don't understand any of it.

Listening to your take on History is a bit like listening to someone use a word they've only ever read - but think it sounds clever - and completely mispronouncing it.

Hey-hoo: we all have our crosses to bear.

And speaking of which, why do you keep typing "so-called" before Holyman?

If you want to achieve what I think you are trying to achieve, you'd be better off using "self-titled". It emphasises the egotistical nature of (your's, which you project onto) my choice.

"So-called" would be appropriate if everyone else around here referred to me as a Holyman, using the title as an adjective. As it is, Holyman is just the proper noun I choose to label myself, and as is the convention, others respect that choice of mine - as I do theirs - and call me by the label I have chosen.

Is that clear, EvilFitch?

Peace