In Reply To #27

In Reply To #10

In Reply To #1

This would be the Civil War that the United States and Israel have been trying to provoke ever since the Palestinian People fairly and democratically elected Hamas as their Government.

We have every right to choose who we fund and who we don't. Just because the Palestinians democratically vote in a terrorist organization as leaders does not oblige us in any way to fund them. If the Palestinians so want Hamas, let Iran feed them.

It's difficult to know how to respond to that Clay Moore.

The defence you've used could just as easily been used as an accusation by me:

Whilst the United States of America (Israel Division) has every right to choose who it funds within the Palestinian Authority; it does not have any right to arbitrarily withhold funds, nor sponsor or promote civil strife within the Occupied Territories.

The United States demands "Freedom and Democracy", and yet when the Palestinians freely and democratically elected Hamas - the only Palestinian organisation Palestinians trusted to represent them; compared to the quisling Fatah Party of President Abbas - America immediately began to do everything it could to destabilise the Hamas Government.

And all with the justification that Hamas is a terrorist organisation.

Hamas is not a terrorist organisation.

There are elements within Hamas who have used, and continue to use terrorism as a method to promote their ideological ambitions.

There are elements with the Government of the United States of America who have used, and continue to use offensive military violence against terrified civilian populations, in order to promote their ideological ambitions.

IF Hamas is a terrorist organisation, then so too is the Republican Party of the United States.

If the Republican Party is not a terrorist organisation - despite its use of and support for terrorism - then neither is Hamas.

You want Peace in Palestine: let the Palestinians govern themselves.

Israel has completely withdrawn from Gaza. Indeed, though it may not be pretty, what we are watching is the Palestinians governing themselves.

How are you defining "complete withdrawal" here Clay Moore?

Who continues to control the only points of entry and exit to the Gaza Strip?

Which nation's army - or "Defence Force" - forces the inhabitants of the Gaza Strip to go through a gruelling and day long process of checkpoints in order to enter or leave "their" territory?

Who controls the flow of all material supplies - including food and medicine - and all foreign visitors, into and out of the Gaza Strip?

How is the Gaza Strip, today, any different from a Concentration Camp?

How is the Gaza Strip, today, NOT Humanity's largest Concentration Camp?

Peace