In Reply To #35

Get that?  Hamas uses a supremacist version of Islam to justify their political arguments.  How dare non-Muslims live in previously conquered Islamic lands?

Are you sure you want to validate this type of argument by arguing Hamas is not a terrorist group?

Yes Foota, let us argue this very point.

What, exactly, do you mean by "Terrorist Group"?

Are you talking about an ideologically defined and driven organisation, using violence against civilian populations, in order to influence their political and social choices?

That is a description that applies equally to the Republican and Democratic Parties of the US, the Conservative and New Labour Parties of the UK, and most mainstream political parties in the G8.

Not everyone in the Republican Party is a militarist, or a Neo-Conservative. Some members of the Republican Party are more concerned with domestic matters, ensuring a good lifestyle and livelihood for the human beings they actually represent, in the government that legitimately governs them. But they belong to a Party that uses methods to terrorise and kill civilian populations, usually in order to influence a change in politics, or religion.

Terrorism is a method; it is not an ideological grouping of individuals.

Arbitrarily describing an organisation or entire nation as "Terrorist", and using that label to justify terrible sanctions against those individuals, is a technique as old as civilisation. It is also a very cheap and unsophisticated form of propaganda, which is only effective on the most naïve individuals.

If you define the entirety of Hamas as a "Terrorist Group" because of the desperate activities of an explosively diminishing faction of that organisation; then you are also required to define the actions of the United States, United Kingdom and Israeli governments as "Terrorist Groups".

The civilian body-counts that the US, UK and Israel rack-up in their "Anti-Terror" campaigns, dwarf anything achieved even collectively, by all non-state organisations spreading their own violence amongst civilians.

The facility and propensity of the US, UK and Israel - and History of doing so - to make Middle Eastern civilians suffer, is far greater than any and all Arab or Islamic Groups have been able to achieve or sustain in return.

For those of us who disagree with the objectives of both parties to this dispute, it is the US, UK and Israeli governments who come off, as by far the most irresponsible and murderous Terrorists.

Peace