[quote="El Sid"][color=#408080]We are in the midst of a Royal Commission into the banking industry in Oz atm. A RC that was voted against 22 times in the federal parliament by the ruling conservatives, until some of their rural coalition partners crossed the floor. What it has so far revealed is as one would expect...unbelievable greed and dodgy dealings. Fees charged to dead people, fees charged for no services provided. Financial advice or loans that ruined customers. Already an AMP chief executive has resigned, only to be replaced by a CEO from a bank. Our current PM was a merchant banker, several cabinet members and a former prime minister worked for a legal firm that was involved in advising banks and financial advisory firms how to avoid problems with the oversight authority (i.e. to lie).

So the question is, Industrial Capitalism is the way to go, but how, short of revolution? The voting public is too stupid to understand and often vote conservative, as they are fooled into trusting their expertise and, as in the UK the Australian

Labor Party (spelling is correct) here is vilified in the Murdoch press as being union run and an economic disaster, despite leaving budget surpluses every time they were voted out in recent election cycles. Surpluses that are rapidly destroyed by the right wing corrupt fuckwits who run this country at the moment.

We had a federal government treasurer who openly gloated when the three big car manufacturers in Oz closed up shop and also put out of business many of their their local suppliers. He's now our ambassador to the USA, is a great mate of Trump and plays golf with him.

We're screwed.[/color][/quote]

It's the hidden cancer that those who champion Capitalism have been blinded to.

One of the traits of a parasite in Nature is that it will overcome an organism's natural defences by convincing the host that the parasite is a part of itself.

That is what Finance Capitalism has done to Industrial Capitalism.

I'm totally down with the principles of Industrial Capitalism, as sanctified in Ayn Rand's "Atlas Shrugged".

Rand promotes the Industrial Capitalist as virtuous, self-reliant, hard-working... Noble. That Humanity has benefited immensely from the ingenuity and fortitude of individuals working to better (and enrich) themselves, is beyond doubt.

So long as Industrial Capitalists remain committed to maximising efficiency and profit, they must always adjust to prevailing environmental conditions. Their Environmental conscientious will be assured by their desire to maximise productivity, keep costs low, and not alienate their customer base.

And after all, what is the alternative to entrepreneurial individuals seeking their just rewards for their own ingenuity and effort?

Communism? With its heavily-centralised and evidently unmanageable bureaucracy? That clearly didn't work out very well, where it was tried?

Or Feudalism? Where a privileged class of humans never work a day in their lives, and expend effort only on lecturing others about how grateful they should be to be allowed the honour of earning a pittance from the Landed Gentry?

No.

Self-motivated individuals working to create Value from their own ingenuity, and reaping their just rewards from doing so, is the *ONLY* way forward. It has always been the only way forward.

Finance Capitalism is *NOT* the same thing.

Finance Capitalism is all about multiplying wealth with the minimum of effort, by exploiting the hard work of others: the Working, Managerial and Entrepreneurial Classes.

What actual physical or mental effort does it take in our Digital World, to borrow money from a Central Bank at a low interest rate, and then lend it to business-owners, entrepreneurs, students and workers at a higher rate of interest, and collect the difference?

There's no risk involved.

The money is borrowed by institutions that Society has been convinced to believe are "Too Big to Fail".

The only people who never go bankrupt, are bankers.

The only people who never get prosecuted for fraud are Financiers.

Western Governments are wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Banking System. Our Presidents and Prime Ministers are subordinated to the whims of Wall Street and the European Banking Centres. Our Central Banks are led by ex-Goldman Sachs employees.

Our youngsters are saddled with debt from the moment they leave education. Our entrepreneurs and innovators beholden to the mercurial whims of "Investors". And our shared transport, communications and utility infrastructures have been converted to debt-leveraged monopolies.

Finance Capitalism is the cancer that is destroying our World.

It is a parasite. No more, no less.