So I'm putting together a series of presentations for the executive authority of a well known metropolitan civic institution; and the presentation is about collaboration and collusion between human beings, with particular reference to ensuring the successful outcome of collective endeavours.

Sounds exciting eh?

(Cultural introspection is what I'm all about really :))

Anyhoo, one of the components of these presentations is about the nature of debate, argument and collective agreement - you may recall the piece I posted last week about Rogerian argument ("Roger That..."), which I encountered during my research.

What follows is a short but important sequence from the presentations. It will be delivered rhetorically, so the audience will respond silently and internally to my goading, but I thought it might be quite helpful if I could gauge some more voluble responses to my material, from you guys.

Here goes then. The first part lays out the terms of reference for my propositions, and the second part contains the questions I will rhetorically ask the audiences. Your comments on both parts are warmly invited. :)

********

Terms of Reference

Human beings can not know what they do not know.

Human beings form conclusions about the information they receive.

Humans can only form whole conclusions, when they have received whole information.

Any conclusion based on partial information, can only be a partial conclusion, subject to revision when new information is received.

Widely-shared conclusions based on what is collectively agreed to be complete information, are considered to be factual knowledge.

Opinions are necessarily based on partial information.

Political opinions are always based on predictions of the Future.

Information about the Future is guaranteed to be more partial and incomplete than even the most scant knowledge of the Present.

Ideas are whole and complete at source.

Human beings can not know what they do not know.

Questions

With what degree of humility do you acknowledge to your self that you can not know what you do not know?

With what degree of humility does your species acknowledge that it can not know what it does not know?

How self-righteously would you defend an opinion or conclusion, knowing that it is based on partial information?

Knowing that your opinion is based on partial information; and knowing that the opinion of another is also based on (different) partial information: would you argue with that other, on the basis that you are wholly right, and they are wholly wrong?

Do you argue on the basis that you are wholly right, and another is wholly wrong?

Do you feel that this is a good method for reducing your information deficit?

How much do you care how right you appear to be?

*********

Of course, I'm not expecting anyone in my audiences to respond openly to those questions - at least not in public.

The purpose of the questions is to promote self-inquiry.

But it'd be nice and very helpful to actually be able to hear some responses.

Any takers? :)

Peace