In Reply To #10

...none of the questions can be answered in the original topic. On 2 occasions it states:

Human beings can not know what they do not know.

As such, arguing whether they are right or wrong based on what they know is impossible: They will always be right since they cannot know it is wrong. If its not right, they know its wrong.

To sum up: I am always right.

Me too. :)

And... We're always wrong too.

What it really starts to look like, is that the terms "Right" and "Wrong" have, very really, no practical or useful purpose in human discourse.

Terms like "correct" and "incorrect", and "purposeful" and "purposeless" have usable meanings, but "Right" and "Wrong"..? Philosophically, socially and practically useless.

The question is, then, why do people (well, mostly men actually) become so emotionally invested in being proclaimed "Right"?

Why, indeed, are so many willing to kill others, and die themselves, for what they "Believe to be Right"?

How many human endeavours have failed, because the protagonists couldn't agree on who was "Right"?

In Reply To #9

In Reply To #7

Ah, no, afraid I've placed an organisation-wide ban on PowerPoint presentations

So how do you do your presentations then? Printed acetates and old-school projector? :)

It usually depends on what information we're trying to convey, and to whom.

We gave a presentation to a generally assembly of clients a couple of weeks ago, on Stakeholder Management: and we used a theatrical company of actors, script-writer and director / producer for that. (We put on a play about Elizabeth I and the Spanish Armada.)

Mostly though, we rely on the personal presentation skills of the speaker - and we all work hard to keep those in shape. :)

The only thing a projected slide is useful for, is displaying complex information whilst it is being explained to the audience by the presenter. You don't need a slideshow for that; you just need a slide.

If a presenter can't hold an audience's attention based on the content of their presentation, then that content probably isn't worth presenting - better to send an Email around with the same information in it.

But if a presenter has a genuine enthusiasm for the content they are presenting, and their audience is genuinely interested in that content, then presentations will usually take care of themselves.

Criticising someone's presentation skills, or the manner of the presentation, rather than addressing the content they have communicated is, well, the professional equivalent of criticising someone's spelling in a forum post, because you're losing the argument. :)

Peace