In Reply To #4

In Reply To #1

Your use of bullets is as good as a hit man ;-)... but....

A few philosophical quibbles. Hell, more than a few I think I'm in a nit-picking mood. Mind you, it has nothing to do with your presentation; I'm just coming at this cold and from a different background maybe, indeed certainly. Your terms of reference may fit the bill perfectly with your target audience and what you hope to engender in their minds.

Actually Sid, I'm still trying to get the right fit for the bill, and your response is entirely helpful for that, so thanks very much for taking the time. :)

• Human beings can not know what they do not know.

Human beings can know what they don't know...it could theoretically entail sub-conscious knowledge, intuition or prescience.Okay, so here I'm using "know" to mean the same thing with both uses.

To know means "to be consciously aware of".

So: Human beings can not be consciously aware of that which they are not consciously aware.

Human beings can also hold off forming opinions if they feel they are not well enough informed as yet.

And maybe they really should. :)

Thinking about the nature of "opinion", it seems that the term could easily be a synonym for: Knowing without knowledge.

I can only hold an "opinion" on something for which I understand I have limited information. If I understand that I have complete information, then I do not "hold an opinion": I have knowledge.

If I do not have complete information, yet express an authoritative opinion anyway, I am saying I know, even though I don't.

Not sure if that even makes sense to me... I know, I'll try mathematics:

Partial or incomplete information + personal subjectivity = opinion.

Apparently complete information + collective objectivity = received knowledge.

Complete information + null = factual knowledge.

Since the concept of "whole information" is of necessity a flawed concept, then it follows that humans cannot form whole conclusions.

A-hah!

Precisely the, uh, whole conclusion I'm trying to direct my audience toward.

I can't be doing too bad a job then; though to be honest, I don't anticipate my audience being as philosophically inclined as you Sid. :)

Now why is "whole information" a flawed concept?

Well, the reasons for that are numerous, and mostly, fairly obvious; so no room for that digression here.

But let's just take Quantum Theory for a moment, and consider the implications of the Theory of Interconnected Totality, or the TIT Theory.

Everything that happens, affects everything else that happens. Without the facility to comprehend Everything that is happening, our understanding of SOME things that are happening, is necessarily incomplete.

Now, really, what I'm getting at is: what kind of a basis is this for self-righteous indignation?

(Rhetorical.)

Partial information (at least in human terms, not scientific or philosophical) will usually engender less than optimal conclusions...except that human experience and human pattern spotting skills may lead a wise decision maker to possibly or even probably make genius level (and even TIMELY) correct guesses.

Agreed.

Just such a shame that so many human decision makers are less than wise, and use their own bitter experience and arrogance to possibly and even probably make idiot level mistakes based on their sense of self-righteousness.

• Widely-shared conclusions based on what is collectively agreed to be complete information, are considered to be factual knowledge.

Or

• Apparently complete information + collective objectivity = received knowledge.

Considered factual knowledge based on consensus gave us the "miasma" theory of disease.....erm, wrong it was.

I think this is why I was drawn to ask essentially the same question of both individual and species. I think it is at least as important that we treat with humility, human-kind's collective store of knowledge, and the essentially ambiguous natures of "fact" and "reality".

We don't have to bang on about that limitation, or use it as a retreat when we're not getting the best of an argument; but I think we do well to keep it in mind.

Ironically, it is a charge frequently levelled by religionists (whoever they are...) against scientists (whoever they are). It is also a charge that says far more about the religionists, than the scientists.

Scientists work from an ignorance point of view.

That is, they believe that they are wrong about everything, and try to correct that situation, collectively. Scientists actively seek out areas of Existence which they are unfamiliar with. They then try to understand those areas, usually by throwing as many strands of theory at the kitchen wall of Reality as they can, and seeing what sticks.

But scientists don't even consider their al denté theories to be absolute facts. Rather, they treat their theories as islands of certainty from which to continue exploring the oceans of their ignorance.

Religionists, on the other hand, work from the basis that they have a complete knowledge, of Everything, up to and including the inner workings of God's mind. Not every religionist may be able to articulate, chapter and verse, the totality of that knowledge - though many try - but they have a faith that the answer to any conceivable question can be found somewhere in their scripture.

The aforementioned irony of the situation is found in the religionists' criticism, of the "Scientists' Certainty" - the most obvious example being religious opposition to Darwin's THEORY of Evolution.

It would seem to me that religionists are the ones claiming absolute certainty; they project this, their own absolute certainty, onto scientists; and then criticise the scientists for (apparently, to them) displaying absolute certainty.

And religionists are absolutely certain that scientists can't be absolutely certain. :)

Opinions are ALWAYS based on partial information....unless you are a god.

Or God's Chief Information Officer. :)

Political opinions are NOT always based on predictions of the future; usually they are based on information received and a combination of prejudice, expediency and what's in it for me.

But aren't PREjudice, anticipated expedients and anticipated personal benefit all predictions of the future?

For example, Foota's current political opinions are based on his predictions of a future where swarms of "Islamo-fascists [sic]" come swarming out of the Middle East, to impose a pan-Islamic Theocracy on the Rest of the World.

He might be right. He might be wrong. Only the Future can tell.

Humans are at their weakest when predicting anything (sadly).

Yes, and they are at their strongest when they grasp the Power of Now.

Ideas are transitory collections of thoughts that change depending on Guinness levels...therefore only at St James Gate Dublin are they complete...its all downhill from there. ;-) (I like that one).

So do I. :)

Questions.

• With what degree of humility do you acknowledge to your self that you can not know what you do not know?

Very humble...but very aggressive in attempting to rectify that.

That's experiential wisdom for you Sid. ;-)

With what degree of humility does your species acknowledge that it can not know what it does not know?

The species? With bugger all humility, mostly...the higher up the greasy pole you go the greater the arrogance and the less the humility.

Right, I think I'm going to have to fly you over to the UK and plant you in the audience Sid.

The inverse relationship between hierarchical advancement (professional and social), and the ability to receive and comprehend information is more or less the entire point of the exercise.

The nature and scope of "Power" invested in a human being necessarily inhibits that individual's facility to receive and comprehend information. Individuals lower down the food-chain make decisions about what information the "higher-ups" should (and do) receive.

To effectively lead an organisation is to do nothing, but know everything.

Humility isn't just desirable in a CEO or President; it is essential to their effective performance.

• How self-righteously would you defend an opinion or conclusion, knowing that it is based on partial information?

I attempt never to use self righteousness to defend a position based on knowledge or lack of it....but I try to use the scientific method in such official business, not emotion or ego. Your audience may well differ.

Not in the least Sid: it is emotion and ego all the way.

My audience is mostly human after all.

Emotion and ego can be tamed though, and if tamed, are tremendously powerful tools for co-existence. It is the unconscious expressions of emotion and lack of awareness of ego that causes the problems.

Consciously, we may feel it of vital necessity that we utterly convince another of our conclusion-based position. Unconsciously, this feeling is an expression of an emotion (fear), and of our ego. Actually, all we are doing is creating a barrier between ourselves and another potential source of information.

So long as we are aware of our emotional and egoic impulses, we can monitor and control them to ensure that we do not create these kinds of situations, and therefore not deny ourselves the opportunity to expand our understanding.

• Knowing that your opinion is based on partial information; and knowing that the opinion of another is also based on (different) partial information: would you argue with that other, on the basis that you are wholly right, and they are wholly wrong?

Mmm sadly on this forum and others yes I do consider myself to be almost wholly right, sometimes (most other times I don't really care and delight in being proven wrong).....but only "wholly right", when pissed, pissed off (ie emotion) playing silly buggers or being mean. During "working hours" never, as the concept is flawed.

I can think of this forum as a sort of mental gymnasium.

We can come here to lift "mental weights", for no other purpose than to increase our ability to lift heavier and heavier mental weights. We may mentally spar with others, for no reason other than to increase our effectiveness at "Mental Combat".

We submit our minds to artificially challenging mental feats, and through that process, become mentally fitter.

In this scenario, it seems perfectly appropriate to argue the toss, for no reason other than the joy of arguing. If we're real keen mental-fitness freaks, we might even consider pushing our minds to the limit, and even try breaking through the "Evil-Fitch" pain barrier - where everything goes from grey and exhausting, to the positive realisation that our minds are capable of enduring even the most tedious of mental challenges.

But at work though, when you're trying to collectively achieve something, well, that's where you put your mental fitness to good purpose: not play games.

• How much do you care how right you appear to be?

I hate ego in arguments, so no, I try to avoid "caring" how I am appearing...but I usually argue such things in front of similar thinkers at "work", not ego charged emotional beings who want to shaft either me, or my ideas, my party, or my race.

Much the same here.

I definitely care whether the information I have is up-to-date and of sound provenance, and I certainly never mind where, how or by whom that information is updated.

But like you, whilst I try to take care that others I am in dialogue with are comfortable in that discussion, I can't say I have ever paid any mind to what they may be thinking about me.

I think it comes down to personal agendas, doesn't it?

My only pre-formed agenda for discussions is to not have an agenda, to follow the flow of the conversation, and absorb as much information as I possibly can. I'm aware that I ramble on at great length with the spoken and written word, so I'm fairly confident that I'm not denying others access to "my" information - usually, I suspect it is the opposite, that I may be overloading them..!

Since it is assured that during the course of the conversation, I'll inevitably communicate whatever it is I specifically need to communicate, I really have no need of an agenda.

But there are many who can't speak or write for more than a hundred words, without reverting back to their well rehearsed agendas.

I suppose that's the mental-gymnasium equivalent of hogging the arm-curl machine... :)

All of the above is probably totally useless to your work world and the target audience...but hey, it was fun.

Afraid your wrong there Sid: your response is very useful. :)

And to be completely honest, it was your response that I was most looking forward to.

Consider your self my "Control Group". ;-)

Peace