[quote="Vaxx"][quote][b][color=#FF0000]tell me HOW Hitler was right wing[/color][/b] [/quote]

[color=#408040]I'll bite, just a couple off the top of my head

Nationalist, imperialist, racist, xenophobic, warlike, mercenary, regimented, traditionalist, populist, martial, militarist ?

not necessarily in that order but all pretty right wing stuff.[/color][/quote]

I never did imagine when Foota first threw his curve-ball querying whether or not Hitler and the Nazis were Right Wing Fascists, that I would at any point end up having to explain *WHY* Hitler and the Nazis were Right Wing Fascists...  >&8~

I mean, ... Well, I just mean... Sort of... Well... I don't know... I'm almost speechless.

But not quite. :D

Here we go then:

Before I get on with this though, and since I seem to have to do all of the heavy lifting in these dialogues, I think I'm entitled to ask you ClayMoore (and Foota) to reflect on why you are even asking if/why Hitler and the Nazis were Right Wing Fascists.

Really. Have a good think about why you have suddenly decided to challenge the universally accepted description of Hitler and the Nazis as Fascists. Have a think about what it says about you, that you are having to ask why Fascism is different to Communism.

At what point in the proceedings did it occur to you that you needed to rehabilitate and reassert the moral authority of the Right Wing ideology you (believe you) support? And that to do so, you need to revise accepted History to move Hitler and the Nazis away from their Right Wing classification, and towards a Left Wing classification?

What's that all about?

Do you not think perhaps it is just a further manifestation of cognitive dissonance?

You know, like the way that Obama goes from being a dictatorial, tyrannical control-freak, when he's doing domestic stuff that you are told you don't like; to his becoming a weak, vacillating push-over, when he doesn't instantly declare War against the second-largest nuclear power on the Planet.

I'm just saying, I suppose, that if you should somehow manage to re-engineer your mind-set to the belief that Hitler and the Nazis were, in fact, Left Wing Socialists: won't that mean you'll have to stop using the Weak/Pussy/Liberal epithets you throw around?

'Cos you know, whatever else you might have to say about Hitler and the Nazis: they were pretty bad-ass, weren't they?

Anyhoo, just thought I'd plant these considerations in your minds, before I start banging on for the next 10,000 words. ;)

OK. You'll forgive me I'm sure if I take a school-masterly tone here, and use prose that sounds patronising (and occasionally condescending): because I am, after all, responding to a request to explain/justify why Hitler and the Nazis were Right Wing Fascists, rather than Left Wing Socialists...

Terms of Reference then:

[url=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Totalitarianism]Totalitarianism:[/url]

[quote][color=#0000FF]Totalitarianism or totalitarian state is a term used by some political scientists to describe a political system in which the state holds total authority over the society and seeks to control all aspects of public and private life wherever possible.[/color][/quote]

[url=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anarchism]Anarchism[/url]

[quote][color=#0000FF] Anarchism holds the state to be undesirable, unnecessary, or harmful.[9][10] While anti-statism is central, some argue[11] that anarchism entails opposing authority or hierarchical organisation in the conduct of human relations, including, but not limited to, the state system.[/color][/quote]

I'm not going to cheat by using Wikipedia's definitions of Communism and Fascism :D

But I am using the definitions of Totalitarianism and Anarchism to frame what I'm about to write, because I think they are much more pertinent to what we are discussing, than the very broad and often ambiguous terms "Right Wing" and "Left Wing".

Because - and let's be *VERY* clear on this point - Left Wing or Right Wing, Communist or Fascist, Capitalist or Labour: no political leader *EVER* advocates Anarchism.

That is: no governmental institution operates to a primary policy of self-destruction. No government sets about trying to dismantle itself. The individuals who occupy political positions within a government (of whatever hue) are always primarily motivated to maintain their positions of authority and power.

Totalitarianism and Anarchism are the two polar opposites here: Total Governmental Power vs. No Governmental Power.

The trick that mainstream politicians have to master is to try and find an acceptable balance point between those two extremes.

Right Wing/Conservative: "Well, of course you need *SOME* Government... Just not too much."

Left Wing/Liberal: "Well, you know, Government must of course exist; but it should, well, you know, look after the People. That's what it is there for, after all. But People should tell the Government what to do: not the other way around."

What I am going to introduce as relative concepts here, for a discussion about "Right Wing" and "Left Wing" ideologies, are: Paternalism and Maternalism.

All Governments - and Central Government politicians: "Statesmen", if you like - are concerned with the power and prestige of the Government, and of the Society that Government represents.

Your Tea-Partiers, Libertarians, and "True Republicans" can bang on endlessly about "Small Government", reduced taxation, Liberty for the Individual &c. But as we have seen most recently with the events in Ukraine, when it comes to the external perception of a particular State or Government, your average Right Winger is *OBSESSED* with the notion of projecting a forceful, indomitable, "Don't Fuck With Us" attitude.

Whilst all internal subsidies should and must be cut - for welfare scroungers, healthcare leeches, pension scheme exploiters and so on - when it comes to paying for a mighty and fearsome Military capability: it's basically an open check-book.

For every dollar righteously removed from Social Security Funding, ten dollars will be just as righteously given to the cause of National Security. Without question.

For every domestic policy enacted by a President in a dictatorial and tyrannical style; there will be at least one foreign policy that is weak, dangerous, and encouraging to "The Enemy" (whoever that happens to be, on any given Sunday).

In other words then: all the money and activity of the State should be devoted to shoring up external prestige, the external appearance of status and power, and the projection and threat of force, should anyone on the outside, fuck with or threaten to fuck with, The State.

Now your Liberal on the other hand, your Socialist do-gooder, your - let's face it - Pinko-Commie pussy... Well, they're just the opposite.

They'll quite happily ignore how the Rest of the World perceives their State, so long as it means everyone within the State is well taken care of. So long as all of the Citizens are happy; so long as they're not having too hard a time; so long as they are not being forced to do anything they don't feel like doing... Well, that's more important, isn't it?

You know: contentment.

Oh yes, I'm sure all this stuff about what is going on in the Outside World is all very important... But it all seems to complicated, always seems to be about men arguing over petty and pointless slights, always seems to be too much fighting and people getting hurt.

Much better to ignore all that nonsense, and just get on with making sure the Home is nice and comfortable; making sure everyone is happy and well fed; not having to work any harder than they feel like working. That sort of thing.

Now does any of this sound familiar?

To you as individual people I mean?

I mean, I know I'm stereotyping here (actually: archetyping): but generally speaking, the "Right Wing" tends to sound an awful lot like Dad/Pop/Father; and the "Left Wing" sounds very much like Mum/Ma/Mother...

Is it just possible that our personal political inclinations owe much more to the kind of relationship we each had with our mothers and fathers, than to any real understanding or demonstration of ideological principle?

Hmmm... I wonder.

So anyway, "Father" is going to be our political personality that is obsessed with National prestige, power and external safety; and "Mother" is going to be our ideological figure who is equally obsessed with domestic duties: wiping everyone's arses; keeping everyone at home fed and comfortable; keeping the house nice and tidy.

Now as we all know, "Mother" and "Father" don't always get along.

Whilst Father wants to spend all the money on setting up a defensive perimeter, protecting the family from those who would do it harm, and of course, accumulating as much material resource as is necessary to provide for and protect those at Home; Mother wants to spend all that money feeding, clothing and caring for the "Children". And these differing priorities often create friction between the two parents.

(And as ever: it's usually the Children who suffer when the Parents are arguing..!).

So we now know what makes "Father" a Right Winger, and what makes "Mother" a Left Winger.

But what makes a Fascist a Fascist? And what makes a Fascist a Right Winger, rather than a Left Winger?

Well, you can't say that because a Fascist is obsessed with the Power and Authority of The State, that makes him a "Big Government Socialist". Because that implies that *ONLY* individuals and governments that are *NOT* obsessed with the Power and Authority of The State, can *NOT* be "Big Government Socialists".

The Right Wing Conservative Republican Party of the United States *IS* obsessed with the Power and Authority of The State; it is an entirely Paternalistic Organisation. Look at the outrage expressed at Mother Obama's failure to behave in a masculine way over recent events in Russia and Ukraine, and around Syria last year.

Conservative Republican Americans are incensed at what they see as the weak, feminine dispositions of the Democrat Administration. How *DARE* it let another (very masculine) man - Vladimir Putin - get the upper-hand in events..?!

So yeah, you know, being concerned with the Power, Prestige and Size of a State is not really a metric monopolised by either the Right- or Left-Wing. So it can't be used in any assessment of Fascist or Communist sensibilities.

So what can?

What about attitudes towards Industry and the Economy?

Well as we all know, political Communism is founded on the Economic theories and critiques of Capitalism, as expounded by one Karl Marx.

Marx found lots of things wrong with Classical Economic Theory in the 19th Century (just as many Economists have found a lot of things wrong with Marx' Economic Theories, as applied in the 20th Century). But one of his primary (and I guess, his most famous) theories was that the Means of Production ought to be Publicly Owned.

This because Marx (correctly) identified and predicted that Capitalists would always seek to accumulate and horde wealth; and so wealth could not be treated as just another commodity to be exchanged, which it is in Classical Economy Theory. By accumulating and increasing their own wealth, Capitalists would function as "thieves": i.e. taking more out of the Economic System than they put in.

Marx' problem with this was not a moral objection to Capitalist thievery, but a mathematical objection to anyone who suggested that Economic equilibrium could be achieved under such circumstances. His answer then was to eliminate the extractive Capitalists from the dynamic, have the Means of Production held in common ownership, and hey presto: nothing would be extracted from the Economy, it would just be continually recirculated. Nothing could be simpler...

The Communists who took up Marx' theories, did so because those theories happily comported with the Communists' ideas about Collectivism and Centralised Government.

Nice idea and all that, just a shame that all of the Power that was then concentrated at those Centres of Government, entirely corrupted the human beings in the middle of it all.

Still, that's Lefties for you.

What about Righties then? What about Hitler?

Did the Nazis advocate Public ownership of the Means of Production? Did Hitler advocate the elimination of the Capitalist class? Was the Third Reich all about its Citizens living as equals: from each according to their abilities; to each according to their needs?

Of course not.

Hitler was a Populist of course, quite the rabble rouser. He knew exactly how to work a crowd and get it all fired up to support whatever ideas they were presented with. But somehow, I don't think all those rallies at Nuremburg would have been quite so successful if Hitler's line had been:

[i]"Basically, you're all working class scum, and you should count yourselves lucky that you have all these master German Capitalists looking after you."[/i] (Or words to that effect.)

You have to improve the wording you use for a message like that, even with the most devout Tea Party Supporter - who is well bred to believe in the beauty and munificence of the Ultra Wealthy...

Actually, Hitler himself wasn't too bothered about the Economy, or Economic matters generally. He did have specific (and I thought, rather well known...) thoughts about Bolshevism, Marxism and Communism. He is recorded as having disdained "Marixan Socialism" as being "anti-property".

Turner quotes Hitler as saying:

[quote][color=FF0000] "There is no license any more, no private sphere where the individual belongs to himself. That is socialism, not such trivial matters as the possibility of privately owning the means of production. Such things mean nothing if I subject people to a kind of discipline they can't escape...What need have we to socialize banks and factories? We socialize human beings".[/color][/quote]

Well Adolf, quite so.

Of course, when the Nazis came to power (in fact: the main reason they *DID* come to power), the World was in the grip of the Great Depression. In the 1930's, even Nations like Great Britain and the United States were having to implement "Socialist" Economic policies to try and get their Economies going again. So if you are going to decontextualize Nazi Economic Policy in the early 1930's and use it as evidence that the Nazis were Left Wing Socialists; you must also apply exactly the same description to the British and American governments of the time as well.

But of course, neither of those two Nations had actually come over all "Red"; they were just having to implement Economic policies of a certain description, to deal with the mess that had been created by capitalist excesses in the 1920's.

And by the Time it came to War of course, well, directing Industrial output to support a War effort was a fairly predictable course of action for any Government gearing up for a fight.

The primary characteristics of a Fascist Economy then are where the (Fascist) government exerts a very powerful influence over Industry, and certainly has a hand in controlling resources. But it terms of Public Ownership of Industry... Well, that more or less goes against the Social Darwinist view of human relations that are a basic characteristic of Fascism.

Whereas the ("Maternal") Communist will look to feed and clothe the needy and those unable to provide for themselves (usually at the expense of those who *ARE* able to fend for themselves; ("Paternal") Fascists are much more about letting natural system dynamics weed out the weak so that only the strong survive.

So much as Hitler and his cronies tried to weed out all the social and human elements that were "watering down" the Aryan blood-stock; they were also quite happy to let market forces weed out the weaker-performing corporations, so that only the strongest and most efficient companies would survive (and thrive).

And they didn't do a bad job of course. Companies like Bosch, AEG, Volkswagen and Siemens continue to dominate industry to this day; and they all of them survived adolescence during the Nazi era.

So I think the fact that private companies were allowed to survive and thrive; that the Nazis never went around confiscating the wealth of the Upper- and Middle-Classes (unless Jewish, obviously...); and of course, a major emphasis on Corporatism (of which, I guess, Albert Speer was the leading example)... Means that the Nazis really were Fascists *AND* held very Right Wing views about the Economy.

What else..?

I suppose one indicator of Hitler's Fascism and general Right Wingery can be found by looking at those non-Nazis who expressed admiration for him at the time (you know, before all the...unpleasantness...became Public).

He does seemed to have enjoyed (and benefitted from) the support and adulation of rather a lot of Industrial and Aristocratic Establishment figures in the 1930's. Juxtaposed against the backdrop of the Great Depression, many prominent and wealthy individuals in the West saw much more encouraging (for them) prospects in Hitler's Fascism, than they did in Stalin's Communism.

People like William Randolph Hearst, Joseph Kennedy, John Rockefeller, Andrew Mellon and Allen Dulles are all on record speaking favourably about Hitler and the Nazi Regime. And none of those particular Americans are really regarded as Communist or Socialist icons.

Need I go on..?

Look, ultimately, it's about Totalitarianism versus Anarchism.

If you can't imagine a Human Society that isn't governed by some distinct group of human beings or another, that's fine. It doesn't make you a Totalitarian; but it *DOES* mean you have to be very mindful about Totalitarianism, because it is your preference that supports a lean towards Totalitarianism.

And if you can't cope with the idea of a Human Society that is governed by *ANY* distinct group of human beings or another: that's also fine. Though that *DOES* mean you are an Anarchist, it doesn't automatically mean that you desire Society to descend into a state of anarchy and chaos. But it *DOES* mean you have to be very careful to prevent that from happening.

But as for Fascism and Communism, the Right Wing and the Left Wing... Well, it can be argued that they are relative rather than absolute terms; and you can also argue - as I just have - that they are more dispositions than strict ideologies:

Fascism is a Paternalist disposition, obsessed with outward displays of force and aggression, and inner self-reliance. Hence: the Nazi's Fatherland.

And Communism is a Maternalist disposition, equally obsessed with trying to fairly distribute limited resources amongst *ALL* the children. Hence: the Communist's Mother Russia.

Is the Paternalist disposition more correct and appropriate than the Maternalist disposition?

Well, I think that's a subjective matter, and is almost certainly dictated by an individual's relationship with their own parents during childhood.

Much more accurate I think to conclude: you simply can't have one without the other.

Unrestrained Paternalism, without the softening influence of Maternalism, will almost certainly produce Monstrous Offspring (and with the Nazis, it certainly did).

And a dominant Maternalism, without the important Paternal guidance to encourage self-reliance and independence, is very likely to produce unhealthy offspring with no sense of self-worth or self-respect.

As with all things in Life: it is always about finding the right Balance.

:>_