[quote=spootbat][color=green]That was a good analysis of this board and online community, Holyman.  But what do you think of me? What role do I serve on this board?[/color][/quote]

Well Spoot, my post wasn't really about our roles or our purpose around here. I think that's very much up to the individual to decide for themselves.

All I was really talking about was the Energy that different posters, and different [b]*TYPES*[/b] of posters bring to any Community, On- or Off-line.

And really, there are only three different kinds of Energy one could bring: Positive; Negative; and Neutral.

From our communication together Spoot, I'd put you definitely in the Positive camp, at least as far as I'm aware. And to be honest, I think that applies to virtually everyone around here. If they're not Positive, then they're rarely negative, which only really leaves neutral.

Actually, EvilFitch is no great shakes as a Forum Troll: though he is undoubtedly a very bitter and angry person; his attacks on others are more sad and desperate, than destructive. He stands out as negatively as he does around here, because of the generally Positive atmosphere that otherwise prevails. And as for SomeGuy, well I think there's almost a perverse charm about the way he conducts himself. He's so naïve, but considers himself so well informed, that when he tries to lay into someone, it feels like he's trying to give someone a kicking, whilst wearing his father's boots. :)

I think the role we each "serve" around here, is very much the role we choose to play. I tend to see my interaction around here as participating in a very subtle and complex RPG - hence my handle.

Clearly, in any form of interaction with other Human Beings, we all tend to try and present the aspect of ourselves that we're most comfortable with, and would most like to be regarded as. Even those of us who present ourselves as "unpretentious, plain-spoken, take-me-as-you-find-me, what-you-see-is-what-you-get" type of people, are still conforming to a particular kind of archetype: that of the unpretentious, plain-spoken, take-me-as-you-find-me...type of person.

Interaction on the Internet though, gives us the facility to emphasise and develop those aspects of our character that we would [b]*MOST*[/b] like to be associated with; without being constrained by physical, socio-economic and even educational limitations.

We might like to present ourselves as an unreconstructed, gun-toting, Good Ole Boy; or a refined, intelligent, civilised type of New Man. Or even as a pompous, self-important, pseudo-intellectual and quasi-religious authority figure. :)

The key issue though is not what type of personality we would like to project into the Community; but what kind of personality the Community can or will accept.

I don't know if you've noticed, but it's been a while since we had any of the religious debates that used to be common currency around here. This, I think, because the general feeling around here is that people who rely on saying "Because God Says So!", aren't really worth engaging. That's not to say that we don't still have religious members of our Community, TED and DantheMan have heartfelt religious convictions; but those convictions are personal to them, and don't need to be continually tested against the rest of the Community to maintain their personal importance for those people.

Probably the most common "type" of member we have though - and by your inquiry Spoot, you fit yourself into this category - is the "type" of person who is into personal exploration and self-discovery. You haven't, don't or won't characterise yourself one-dimensionally, and you use your interaction with others to find out more about yourself; rather than using the same interaction to try and get others to believe you to be someone you would like to believe yourself to be.

And that, in my opinion, is the most Positive kind of Community Member there is. :)

Peace