[quote=Spamdez][color=green]Some of you will remember me as a much more active member of these forums.[/color][/quote]

I do. :)

Of course, maybe the same "some" will remember me also as a much more active member of these forums too.

Now I wouldn't give credit or satisfaction to either EvilFitch or SomeGuy by suggesting that the reason I don't post here as much anymore is solely down to them. Actually, between a young family and a fuller workload, my participation with =PBF= has been subject to de-emphasis...

But I reckon I would be around a little more than I am, but for EvilFitch & SomeGuy.

=PBF= to me has always been like a Never-Ending party.

I don't mean a "Part-EH!"; I just mean one of those "Back to my place" parties, were there's been a nice vibe going on in a pub or club, and come closing time, someone suggests that things carry on back at their pad. Or even just a straightforward house party.

You know what they are like: lots of different groups of people discussing lots of different topics in all the different areas of a house or flat.

That's all. Nothing flash. Nothing poncy. Nothing pretend. Just a bunch of guys shooting the shit, drinking and smoking, talking about whatever comes up.

And at =PBF=, the party just runs on and on. And best as I can tell, for the most part everyone is enjoying it.

Except, clearly, EvilFitch and SomeGuy.

Though EvilFitch is by some way the more odious and obnoxious of the two. SomeGuy is basically =PBF='s Village Idiot; but EvilFitch is nothing more than a petty trouble-maker.

Obviously they are the types of people who would *NEVER* get invited back to someone's place for an after-hours party, nor invited to any old house party. They are both Atmosphere Hoovers. They are both Buzz-killers. Both joyless and mirthless dorks with no facility to engage positively with other party-goers, so they just try to crash the party down with their inexhaustible negativity.

And EvilFitch is always trying to start fights - even though he always loses them.

It's got nothing to do with what they say; nothing to do with what their views are. So let's not have them hide behind that barricade.

"Their" views, such as they are, are shared by several other =PBF= party-goers, like Audie, Foota, Alaskan Viking and a few others. But those guys post with a conviction and certainty about their views that EvilFitch and SomeGuy just don't have. Those two just seem to thrive on inter-personal conflict. It's not about the supremacy of ideas with them, but about how much they can diminish other posters.

And you don't need to be a professional psychologist to figure out that's because of their own, severely diminished off-line personalities.

It's not about banter; it's not about heckling, passionate arguments or inflamed insults. When things get hot between other posters - and I've had my fair share of heated exchanges - things cool down pretty rapidly, once the parties to discord have said their piece. But with EvilFitch and SomeGuy, sewing discord is *ALL* it is about: nothing else.

Fact is that they are both gate-crashers, spoiling a party which neither are welcomed to.

It's an Energy thing: not political or ideological. They are just unwanted guests, always trying to start fights, and always dragging down the atmosphere.

And what baffles me more than anything, is just why they choose to stay somewhere they are so thoroughly disliked.

I just hope that what I and others have written in this thread doesn't give either of them the "Sympathy Vote". Because really guys, they don't deserve any.

No-one is suggesting that =PBF= Party-goers shouldn't feel free to voice whatever opinions they want, whatever way they want, using whatever language they choose.

But it is clear that I'm not the only one who thinks that EvilFitch's petty, vicious, vindictive, nasty and *CONSTANT* attempts to start fights with anyone and everyone is poisoning the atmosphere of our Party.

[face_peace]