[quote=EvilFitch][color=red]Allow me Vax:

Good God Almighty, just when I think you cannot possibly be any more brainwashed, backward, or just plain stupid, you go and raise the bar a little bit higher. Coming from a person whose understanding of American History and Government can be adequately described as zero. Only a complete moron, and I mean that sincerely, would EVER suggest that any people, ANYWHERE should trust their government. Nobody;  try reading a little Locke and Montesquieu, for a starter education in something you should have learned years ago. Have you ever read or heard the phrase "checks and balances?" Do you know why the United States has a constitution and a Bill of Rights? Of course you don't. Americans do not trust their government.  This is why Americans REMOVE their government ever 2,4, and 6 years. What do politicians do when they want to raise taxes?  They put out propaganda. What do politicians do when they want to build bridges?  They put out propaganda. What do politicians do when they want to build military bases?  They put out propaganda. What do politicians do when they want to alter healthcare?  They put out propaganda. What do politicians do when they want to do ANYTHING that involves a pet project and tax payer money?  They put out propaganda.  That is what they do.  This is how the constituents are kept in the loop. That is the NATURE of American politics and was CREATED this way by the Founding Fathers of this nation. The founding fathers did THIS ON PURPOSE. This is why EVERY, count them, EVERY AMERICAN LEADER and PRESIDENT has put out propaganda when they wanted to wage a war. "Bunker Hill!" "Fredericksburg!" "Remember the Alamo!" "Remember the Main." "He kept us out of the war." "Remember Pearl!" I am not surprised you do not know this given the fact you do not understand **** about American history. Not only are you are mental invalid, you are also a liar. I have posted the evidence over and over and over again where both the United Nations weapon Inspectors and the Security Council found Saddam in breach of the Cease Fire (read 1441 which was unanimous which, in the opening lines states that "We find Saddam/Iraq in material breach of the Cease Fire" etc...) Oh and what about the WMD we DID FIND in Iraq?  The so-called old shells that were cited in U.N.W.I. documentations PRIOR to the war as unaccounted for which, when a few were found and tested in the late '90s, were found to be far more effective than first thought? Saddam Hussein had links with KNOWN terrorists and documents found in Iraq have linked terrorist operatives with the I.S.I. operatives so here is another lie. I have yet to see any high ranking government official in this administration come out and DIRECTLY link Saddam with 9/11 (i.e. Saddam planned or financied the attack) but I have seen the Bush administration follow the Clinton administration and intelligence when stating: -Saddam was in violation of the Cease Fire (he was). -Saddam was still in possession of WMD (he was, we found many).  -Saddam had links with known terrorists (he did, in fact CNN had no problem reporting Saddam financing terrorists striking an American ally). Etc, etc...  In fact, Clinton launched a salvo into Iraq for these very reasons (his speeches are well documented).Coming from a fool who suggest people buy a commodity when the price is at or near peak for a LONG TERM investment, I would take this comment with a grain of salt. Perhaps an over privileged, under-educated fool such as yourself cannot see the problem living under the boot of a dictator but the Iraqis can.  If no other reason exists (they do) the fact Saddam is no longer in power is enough to prove that the Iraqi people were, indeed helped. Stupid people, like yourself, can be found in every nation around the world including America. You have 0 working knowledge of History (especially American), Logic (even basic tenets taught to children), Economics (buy HIGH sell LOW w00t w00t!!), and know Military history and doctrines as well. See above. Hitler had chemical weapons and did not use them on the Allies for the same reason Saddam did not:  they both understood that the allies would reciprocate in kind. Funny thing for a man who has destroyed his WMD and WMD programs to BURRY SHELLS that were KNOWN TO EXIST, keep tons and tons of materials that are the source materials for WMD, and obfuscate and defy the U.N. for more than a decade. Oh, and U.S. forces invaded Iraq wearing expensive and degradable WMD suits (once worn, their shelf life runs out rather quickly). Actually, most of it WAS and IS true. Whatever else people like you might now try to say to justify your bankrupt outlook on life and history and your irrational and illogical lies, the fact is none of that bull-**** will change history. Sucks for Saddam he chose to invade two sovereign nations and then failed to live up to the agreement which prevented his disposition from office. Bush repeated what had been repeated by: -The UN. -UN weapons inspectors -British Intelligence -NATO Intelligence -The CIA -The Clinton Administration -The Bush Sr. Administration ...and somehow Bush, and Bush alone is incompetent and a liar? Why has heir-Holyman not been propped up against a wall and executed?  Really, why has this not occurred at hand of the both-evil genius and incompetent Monkey Caesar-ruler-of-earth Bush? But the War Criminals are still in power; and they still have Iran in their sights.

When I last left you were an idiot, a liar, and a fool. Glad to see you remain consistent. [/color][/quote]

Ugh.

I always feel the need to take a shower whenever EvilFitch throws one of his puerile and sophomoric posts at me...

Clearly, responding to any of his angst-ridden tirades never serves any practical or positive purpose, since getting sucked into Planet EvilFitch is to partake of and participate in the murky, dysfunctional and degraded life this poor wretch has been born to.

However, never let it be said that your Holyman can not find and take something positive and instructive from even the dankest of Internet exchanges. :)

I first logged onto the Internet nearly twenty years ago, actually about 3 years before Tim Berners-Lee invented the World Wide Web, and about 4 or 5 years before Web-portals became a common feature provided by ISP's. And I can tell you that back in those pre-Web, BBS days, the likes of EvilFitch were all too commonly encountered, sitting atop their own festering corners of the nascent InterWeb.

As the Web got up and running, E-mail groups, Forums and Chat Rooms became pretty much the domain of choice for socially dysfunctional individuals like EvilFitch and SomeGuy. Rather obviously, these loathsome specimens found in the Electronic Medium, a facility to impose their personal shortcomings on others; a facility that in the Off-line World was denied them either by social exclusion, violence, or both.

Now I should make abundantly clear here that I'm not talking about ideological viewpoints. I'm not talking about what a person thinks about politics, religion, sex, the Environment or Society as a whole.

What I [b]*AM*[/b] talking about, is how an individual feels about the other human beings they co-exist with; how they choose to interact and integrate with people they hardly know; and how negatively charged some individuals can become, within an On-line Community.

The question I always keep coming back to with EvilFitch and SomeGuy (and occasionally Foota, but more of him later... :)), is:

[b]Why do you continue to try and participate in a Community where you are held in such contempt; and which you yourself are so contemptuous of?[/b]

There are innumerable Communities open to the Public throughout the Internet; what is it that makes someone latch onto an otherwise positive Community, and pollute it with their negativity?

The answer, I think, is the same as why these miscreants don't all congregate together, in self-contained stink-pile communities of their own.

These are people who define themselves negatively; and conduct their interactions with others on a more or less exclusively negative basis. And this means that these parasites require a Positive Host that they [b]*CAN*[/b] spend their time negating.

You couldn't have all the negativity creators and feeders in a single Community, because they'd all starve from lack of attention.

Allow me to explain.

This post you are reading right now carries the usual whiff of Holyman-pomposity and over-intellectualised consideration; but whatever else it is, it is an [b]*ORIGINAL*[/b] post, composed more or less entirely from original thought.

By an Individual. :)

Oh sure, it is a post that I probably wouldn't have gotten around to writing, but for EvilFitch's latest catalysing address to me. And I don't flatter myself that I'm creating or discovering any original sociological or anthropological observations and ideas here. But it [b]*IS*[/b] a post that at least within this, our =PBF= Community, is recognisably [b][color=blue]*Holyman*[/color][/b], and therefore recognisably individual and original [b]*ACTION*[/b].

By contrast, the likes of EvilFitch and SomeGuy are only able to [b]*RE-ACT*[/b]. And easily distinguished from a [i]response[/i], their [i]reactions[/i] are invariably hostile, and always, always negative.

Now a community comprised solely of negative [i]re-[/i]actors can never survive, because there are never any positive [b]*ACTS*[/b] to [b]*RE*-[/b]act to.

By the same token, there can never be more than a handful of these negatively reacting parasites attached to any single host Community. This because sooner or later, either too many would destroy the host Community; or the weakest parasites would find it simply impossible to compete for negative reactions, when up against the more enduring and experienced, and therefore stronger parasites.

So how to describe and identify the pathology of these social parasites, these negative re-actors?

Well, I believe it simply comes down to this:

Individuals who have been starved of or denied [b]*POSITIVE*[/b] attention and Emotional regard, have learned to incite and value negative attention and Emotions, over complete disregard.

In other words: in the absence of warm, positive social interaction with their fellow Humans; they will generate and attract hostility and negativity, as a more preferable alternative to simply being ignored.

So where does that leave us, here at =PBF=? [i](rhetorical)[/i]

Well, in the nearly 3 years since I washed up on the shores of this R'n'R section, I've seen the levels of reactive, parasitical, negative participants happily receding. I know we've most of us had our own [i]bête noire[/i] at one point or another, in the shape of an individual poster whose personal attentions towards us have been as unwelcome as they were often creepy and cloying.

It would give those individuals more credit than they ever earned, to list who they were. Suffice to say that their identities have all been characterised by their fixating on one or more of the positive individuals in our Community, and literally stalking them to distraction.

It might be a source of satisfaction to point out how many of these parasites have moved on, either having been forcibly excluded by the Moderators, or ultimately starved of the negative reactions they crave; and it [b]*IS*[/b] to our Community's credit that we have far fewer of these dysfunctional types than many other similar forums on the Internet. [i](Citation needed?)[/i]

However, the fact of the matter is that for every one of these parasites we have managed to divest ourselves of, we have probably lost two or three really interesting and positive individuals; who have moved on simply because they couldn't abide the antagonism and hostility that the negative re-actors create. I'm thinking of people like El Sid, Charlie K and HelicioNOD to name but three individuals I personally miss.

And of course, for every member that moves on because they can't stomach having to deal with a Community that can gravitate down the negative black holes created by posters like EvilFitch, there are many other members and friends who don't post anywhere near as much as they'd like, because of the hostile and antagonistic outbursts they will inevitably encounter.

Before I go any further, I think I ought to make special mention of our own dear Foota.

As I said above, what I'm talking about is not an issue of politics, or religion, or nationality, or education, or socio-economic status. It is about the ability to socialise, the ability to be civil, and above all else, the ability to contribute positively to our Community; and certain people's complete inability to do the same.

Foota frequently wobbles across that dividing line. But then, so do I; and so too do several of the other more forthright individuals in our Group. Nobody is Perfect - though Superslacks, Spamdez and Francois-Xavier probably come closest to being so around these parts. I'd give a shout out to Spandex, Xclone and Zissky too, but as Moderators they are kind of compelled to follow a narrower path of personal expression than the rest of us, as Wunder recently (and rightly) found out.

Foota's "reasoning" can be as infuriating as it is frequently fascinating, and his attention to the "Party Line" often masks an individuality as otherwise distinct as any of us. I think that if Foota's contributions to the Forum were not so exclusively political - and Neo-Conservatively political at that - we'd all see a much more rounded and developed individual than the majority of his posts tend to suggest.

My point being that despite Foota's frequently obtuse and generally un-reconstructed political ideas, he usually manages to steer a somewhat positive course, at least in terms of his original contributions and personal convictions. Foota doesn't need to spend (much of...) his time personally insulting and antagonising other posters; at least, not those who aren't behaving likewise towards him.

EvilFitch and SomeGuy on the other hand, have pretty much defined themselves around here as posters who exist solely to sow and spread discord. Frequently sent scuttling off into the shadows, either by the Moderators, or by a well-placed and pithy response from those wise to their game; after longer (EvilFitch) or shorter (SomeGuy) periods of absence, they will strike out at either unwary posters, or those who they've come off badly against in the past.

If Foota might have a fairly predictable political viewpoint, it is nothing compared to how predictably hostile, antagonistic, anti-social, ignorant, and of course negative EvilFitch and SomeGuy's posts are always going to be.

To be fair to Foota, I think he is certainly capable of altering his posting style, and on the very odd occasion he does. It's just that generally he's sees no reason to. By contrast, EvilFitch and SomeGuy (and other parasites like them) are only capable of operating on a single, negative wavelength, and inciting nothing but hostility and opprobrium.

At least when Foota posts, he inspires many of us to really examine the fundamental shortcomings of Society as a whole... ;)

So why am I writing this post? [i](rhetorical, again...)[/i]

Well, I don't claim to know what our combined purpose here at =PBF= is; and I couldn't possibly know what individually motivates us all to continue to participate here.

But what I have observed, and continue to observe, is a Community with a developing identity, participation with which the majority of members consider a positive aspect of their lives.

I once compared our little corner of the Internet to a Wild West frontier town, with characters as individual and distinct as anything ever stereotyped in films and books. =PBF= R'n'R isn't a lawless place: we have in our Moderators, our very own Earp brothers, who keep order with a firm but generally unobtrusive hand. And like those early Western pioneers, whilst we don't know or can't see the exact nature of the Future we are moving towards, I think we do recognise that there [b]*IS*[/b] a future for "Towns" like ours.

The Wild Web is barely a decade and a half old, yet it is increasingly displacing the function that in previous incarnations of Human Society was served by pubs, bars, clubs, campfires and, uh, more material fora. I speak from personal experience (and motivation) when I say that sociologists and anthropologists are already examining On-line Communities in a way that primitive villages in Africa, and great cities in America have been studied for some time.

Given the Environmental and Economic pressures on our current habitats, in towns and cities; and the rise in technology that is inevitably leading towards a greater (if not wholly exclusive) emphasis on working from home, I can see a Future where Communities like ours will assume a much greater importance in our lives than perhaps seems possible at this moment.

Whatever the Future may precisely hold for us all, we can safely assume that for individual Communities like ours, the Future will be one of either Growth, or stagnation. Growth requires Positive and Creative energy; and stagnation will be the product of negativity and destructive tendencies.

There is no law, or rule, or practical defined response to the parasitical attentions of people like EvilFitch and SomeGuy; the only way to deal with the individual ticks, as they latch onto us, is to starve them of the Positive Energy they seek at every turn to negate.

This isn't about treating individuals harshly, or with the same kind of contempt they display to us. It is simply about recognising that whilst there is nothing wrong or faulty with their individual being. It is in their and our mutual interests to make it abundantly clear that their negative behaviour and comportment serves neither their selves, or the Communities they latch onto.

This is not something we achieve by responding to their negativity, with negativity of our own.

But it is perhaps something we can make progress on, by trying to take or make something positive from and of their negative behaviour.

Peace