[quote=padre86][color=indigo]You know what I realized the past 10 seconds? Holyman writes a lot like St. Paul his style, manner, instruction, kiss all of it Greek letter writing style, it's actually quite fascinating.[/color][/quote]

Goodness Dan, that's probably the most flattering comment I've ever received.

And coming from you, I can't doubt its sincerity: so thank you. :)

Have you ever heard of Philip K. Dick?

He was an American Science Fiction author who wrote, amongst other things, the book "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?" that the film "Bladerunner" was based on.

He also wrote an award-winning book called "Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said"; a book he described writing really quickly, as it just flowed out. He compared the experience to how he imagined channelling must feel like.

Anyway, about four years after the book was published, he was at a party and he met this woman who had the same name as the female character in his book. And she had a boyfriend with the same name as the boyfriend character in the book; and she was having an affair with this guy, the Chief of Police, who [i]also[/i] had the same name as the Chief of Police in his book. He obviously found this all a bit freaky... But I guess being who he was, he was quite comfortable with "freaky". :)

Shortly after the party, he was going to mail a letter, and he saw a dodgy looking character standing by his car. But instead of avoiding him, which Dick said he would normally have done, he just walked right up to him and said, "Can I help you?".

The guy said, "Yeah, I ran out of gas."

Philip K. Dick then pulled out his wallet, and handed the guy some money, something he said he would never normally have done. But when he got home, he realised that the guy wouldn't be able to get to a gas station, because he's out of gas. So Dick got back in his car, went and found the guy, and took him to a gas station.

As Dick pulled into the gas station, he realised that this exact situation was also in his book: the same station, the same guy. Everything.

Obviously he found the whole episode a bit creepy, and so he told his priest all about it, describing how he wrote the book, and then four years later, all these things happened to him.

And as he was telling it to the priest, the priest says, "That the Book of Acts. You're describing the Book of Acts."

Now Dick had never read the Book of Acts, so he went home and read it, and found it even more uncanny. Even the characters' names were the same as in the Bible. And the Book of Acts was supposedly written in 50 A.D.

http://deoxy.org/pkd_how2build.htm

In the above essay describing this experience, Dick expounds a theory that Time is an Illusion, and we are all actually still in 50 A.D. And the reason he had written this book was that he had somehow momentarily punctured through this Illusion, this Veil of Time, and what he had seen there was what was going on in the Book of Acts.

Though an Episcopalian, he was really into Gnosticism, and this idea that this demiurge, or demon, had created this illusion of time to make us forget that Christ was about to return, and the kingdom of God was about to arrive. And that we're all in 50 A.D., and there's someone trying to make us forget that God is imminent.

And that's what Time is. That's what all of History is. It's just this kind of continuous daydream, or distraction.

Be funny if that were True, wouldn't it Dan? ;)

Peace