In Reply To #7

In Reply To #6

In Reply To #5

Christians believe Jesus is Lord. There is no other God but Him. A christian is supposed to become Christ-like. It is their goal to become perfect like Him. Jesus can take the imperfect man and make him christ-like but not make him Christ as there is only one christ.

So, just to clarify:

• A Christian's goal / duty is to become perfect, like Christ

• But a Christian can never become perfect like Christ

No you misunderstood. You can become christ-like. It just a matter of belief and how much belief is in you. You can do all the things Jesus did nothing is impossible for you.

Actually TED, to be fair, you were quite clear about that in your first statement. I think the mischief-maker in me was looking for something pithy to respond with, and a certain reading of what you wrote kind of allowed that...

Soz. :)

You know, one of the aspects of Christianity - particularly the Fundamentalist and "Born Again" branches - I find most uncomfortable, is the idolising of Jesus.

I thought old Moses had cleared up the confusion surrounding idolatry.

The Commandment against "Worshiping False Idols", I think, is often taken to mean not worshipping ICONS (golden calves and the like...). But I think that the kind of Jesus-idolatry practiced by many contemporary Christians owes far more to the Cult of Celebrity, than pursuing the manifest destiny of all Human Beings.

As far as we can tell, the biblical Christ was a pretty humble fellow; certainly on those occasions when autograph-hunters and celebrity-junkies tracked him down, he didn't appear to enjoy the notional elevation of his status. If Jesus understood that his "mission" here on Earth was to help propel Humanity along the path of Spiritual growth and evolution; perhaps he also knew that being idolised and worshipped was much more likely to increase the sense of separation felt between Humans and God, than narrow it.

Jesus famously predicted that the "Meek" were blessed, because they stood to inherit a substantial amount of real estate.

One can't help but feel that the sense of smug self-satisfaction exhibited by some Christians, and their frequently supercilious attitude to the "unwashed", is about as far removed from "meek" as it is possible to be.

I too believe we can be as "Perfect" as the Christ.

And as "Perfect" as the Prophets, the Patriarchs, the Buddha, the Brahmins, the Yoga-ji and the Einstein (to name but a few).

Maybe the only difference between us is that I believe we already ARE that "Perfect".

We have just been taught not to realise it.

Have you ever looked upon a Spiritually imperfect newborn?

Peace