OK.

Given our inability to conduct a verbal conversation with any practical or progressive output at the moment, probably best to communicate via Email until normal communications are restored.

First things first:

When I accuse you of "having your head up your arse", I mean that you are failing to consider and/or account for another's perspective. I don't know if you are doing this with anyone else, and if you are, that's ultimately your affair, but you have certainly been doing it with me since you pulled the pin on this grenade 10 days ago.

When someone gives you their perspective - or *TRIES* to give you their perspective - that is *ALL* they are doing: giving you their perspective.

It is irrelevant whether or not that perspective matches or accords with your own, or even whether or not you agree or find fault with that perspective. To dismiss, disregard and/or deny that perspective is to "have your head up your arse".

Secondly:

To walk away from a conversation, hang-up, screen or ignore communications with someone you claim to care about, because you don't like what you are hearing, or don't want to hear what you are hearing, or just plain think that the other person is being unreasonable and/or hostile... Is gay.

When communications have broken down with someone you care about - and want to continue to care about - fixing things has to be a priority. Shutting the other person down and closing yourself off because the other person disputes or disagrees with your perspective is *NOT* going to help mend anything.

I have heard - repeatedly - what your perspective on this situation is. Even as it has hurt me to hear you paint a picture where I'm taking advantage of you, and/or being an over-bearing "Big Brother", I have still listened to and understood your perspective.

I've tracked your perspective, from one of genuine brotherly love and largesse this time last year (when you first lent me the bike) and the year before (when you lent me the money), through the ups and downs of your personal and professional situation, to the panic borne from concern and worry about your future prospects that fully hit home on (what you called) "Explosion Day".

And prior to the events of the last couple of weeks, I also think you had a pretty good handle on what my perspective was. In as far as you had the mental and emotional space amongst your own challenges, you seemed to understand that things for me weren't as financially robust as I usually like them to be (as you usually like them to be for yourself, not un-coincidentally). And from a position of fraternal love and compassion, you were doing what you could to help me out, just as you know I have always done what I have been able to do to help you out, when you could benefit from my help.

And I have thoroughly appreciated the help you have given me (and by extension, Shelley and the boys), just as I know how fully you have appreciated the help I have given you in the past.

Of that, you should never have any cause for doubt.

Now... Getting down to the Unfortunate Events of the last couple of weeks:

Try to remember as you read what follows: this is *MY* perspective.

I'm not saying it's the unvarnished and objective Truth. I'm not suggesting that my memory is completely flawless, and that if I say this is what happened, then this is *DEFINITELY* what happened. I *KNOW* I have a Life Review coming at the End of All This, when I'll get the Whole and the All of It... So I don't waste my Time worrying about whether I see things exactly the same way others do, or whether others see things exactly the way I do.

That's not the Point of Life.

The Point of Life is to have multiple, incomplete perspectives working together to understand the aggregate of the Whole.

I don't *EVER* work from the position that I know how or what others are seeing. I don't *EVER* close judgement on what people are thinking or doing.

The whole basis of my personality and intelligence is founded on *NOT KNOWING*. That is something I have worked on, practiced, codified and made my mantra, pretty much throughout my adult life.

If I work from the position that I know everything already, then I am not open to learning anything. But working from the position that I know nothing, I have learned - and continue to learn - incredible amounts.

Broadly... Over the last couple of weeks, you have been behaving towards me as though you know fully and exactly what my perspective is; what my motivations are; what my intentions and priorities are. So convinced have you been that any attempt on my part to even begin to suggest that you may not be correct, have been met with hostility, dismissiveness and outright rejection.

So for your records, here is my perspective, mistakes, misconceptions, and mis-rememberings all:

Summer 2016:

Things were pretty tight for me, one way or another, because I had the Tax-Man breathing down my neck and my contract at Prudential was coming to an uncertain end. I explained all this to you and you very kindly loaned me some money that I said I would pay back to you... As soon as I was able to do so.

(Thank you very much, again, btw.)

Spring 2017:

Things were starting to look up for me, because of the Rabobank job. But I was still trying to economise.

One of the ways I could economise was by reducing how much money I was spending on commuting. Using a motorbike to commute instead of travelling by train, I estimated I could save myself £150-200 a month.

You offered to let me borrow the SV; an offer I gratefully accepted.

Shortly after you let me borrow the SV, you resigned from Aralon, telling me that you were going to get into IT Contracting. I didn't think you would have any trouble getting a contract, and anticipated that you would be comfortably able to earn more money contracting in IT than you had been earning at Aralon.

Summer 2017:

At the beginning of May, you worked on the SV and got it through its MOT.

You were getting well into being a roving motorcycle mechanic through the summer, and you were managing to make ends meet.

You also kindly came up to my place to look at a suspected petrol leak on Binky, and change the oil.

By the end of the summer, the motorcycle mechanic work was beginning to drop off. We discussed repaying the loan, and I suggested that I should be able to give you £500 a month back, starting in August. And I gave you the first £500 on 4th August.

Then we started talking about you having to get an IT contract and I sorted out your CV and set you up with a job interview here at Rabobank.

You were so optimistic at the possibility that you might get the role here that you pre-empted the outcome of the interview by saying that if you got the job, you'd cancel the loan debt and let me have the SV for nothing. I gratefully acknowledged the sentiment, but suggested that we wait and see how the interview went before "counting our chickens".

It was obviously disappointing that you didn't get the Rabobank role.

I didn't give you any more money back on the loan, because you said you could cope without it, and I was still struggling with the £2.5k a month repayment to HMRC.

Autumn 2017:

Things were starting to get a little tight for you. I'd repaid you £500 in August, and at the beginning of October you asked if I could send you £2k on the 30th November... And I said I couldn't.

I set you up with the interview at Prudential at some point, which I really did think you would walk through.

But for one reason and another, you didn't get that role.

You came up and replaced the brake pads on the SV in October.

Then at the beginning of November you got your benefits sorted out and that took the heat off (both of us).

I counselled you on how IT contracting works with regards limited company formation, and how to go about "mining" JobServe for a contract.

At the beginning of December, I repaid another £500.

Winter 2017/18:

You came up for a few days over Christmas, and all seemed well enough, except when we discussed She-Who-Shouldn't-Be-Discussed.

Mid-February, you informed me that you wanted the SV back... Something I hadn't anticipated.

I expressed my surprise to you, and that as far as I was aware, I was going to hang onto it and give you *SOME* money for it as and when I was able to.

Then you found a solution to the problem, with a biker mate who was going to let you use his bike. That fell through, and you said you wanted me to keep the SV, but would need some cash, and soon.

Middle of March I gave you another £500 back, and said I should be able to let you have another £750 in April.

End of March you told me you were "depending on cash" from me - "the more the merrier".

April 2018:

I sent you £750 on 6 April.

Then your benefits started to be changed around and you were really starting to struggle for cash.

Around this time, Andy crashed his race SV and you left a message for me telling me that you were going to sell the SV to him for £1500.

I called you back and said that would leave me in the lurch, as Binky wasn't working and I couldn't get to the station without relying on Shelley to give me a lift. So you had to turn down Andy's offer.

Shortly after, I received a visit from HMRC and got into another arrangement to pay off my Corporation Tax arrears.

On the same day, we had a discussion where we talked about letting Andy buy the SV for £1500, and then you offered to let me take the cash and use it as a down payment on another bike. I tweaked that by suggesting I just take £1000, and you take £500 as another repayment. You seemed very happy with that.

Then Andy didn't want to buy the SV 'cos he'd bought another for £600.

23 April:

You told me you'd bought a semi-wrecked Kawasaki for £770, and could the guy drop it off at my place.

My thought on hearing that: if he's just spent the money I repaid him (+£20) on that bike, he's probably not on the breadline... But... His money: he can do what he wants with it.

Then some business about potentially dropping the seller off at a station... Then discussions about picking you and the VFR engine up... Getting the engine to Cambridge... And getting you and your tools to and from my place so that you could carry out the work on the SV.

27 April..........:

All fine in the morning. I rode the Kawasaki in and out of work. And I called you in the evening to give you a Review of the Ride.

At that point, the arrangement for the engine delivery and SV work was that I would pick you up on the Saturday morning (after dropping Shelley off at her workshop), tools, engine and all. Bring you back to my place where you would stay to sort out the SV and have a look at Binky. Then I would drive you and the engine to Cambridge, then you and your tools back to your place, before returning home.

When we started to talk about that, you blithely informed me that I would be your "Support Driver" for the day, following you and Andy around, in case the Kawasaki broke down.

You seemed to be saying that I was going to be picking you, the engine and the tools up, then coming back to my place. Then driving you, Andy and the engine over to Cambridge, then back to my place. Then following you and Andy, carrying your tools, to your place... Then driving back.

With Cosmo in the car.

I was... Very surprised... And asked you to clarify what you were asking/expecting...

And you hung up.

I then spent the next three days trying to contact you, only to be ignored.

Monday 30th April:

You eventually contact me to tell me to stop being a "drama Queen [sic]".

And to tell me that you have been "doing the business plan".... And "not sure if I mentioned it, but I'm running a business".

You acknowledged that you were "asking too much of me"... And told me that we "had a conversation on Friday night that [you] intended to have with [me] on Saturday."

You signed off with: "We're all good Bro, sorry to leave you hanging. Don't call I need to get on."

I replied: "Alright... Just watch your Head:Arse interface..."

...Because I was concerned that you might be losing awareness of others' perspectives.

But all seemed well.

Tuesday 1st May:

What *I* really needed to get a grip on was what was happening with regards the SV.

You are not the only one trying to run a business.

With Binky out of action and the SV in need of a service, I needed to know how I was going to get in and out of work. That was *ALL* I needed to get an understanding about. That was *ALL* I needed to talk to you about.

Your response to my text was a bit vague, and ended with a rather perfunctory: "Have you got any money for me?"

So I tried to call you to discuss.

And we had a row over the phone.

And the Rest...

Is fresh in both of our minds.

The SV and Loan then:

Short of £250, I'd repaid most of the loan by the beginning of April.

So... Just a matter of the SV then.

Cast your mind back to the beginning of this Email (I know... But I'm only doing this once.)

When we first talked about me borrowing the SV, it was so that I could economise on transport costs by saving myself £150-200 a month by using a motorbike that you weren't dependent on using.

I had no intention of buying the SV then (or any other bike): because that wouldn't have resulted in any transport economies, if I had to pay for a bike as well as use it.

Throughout last year, I was relying on your good graces and brotherly disposition to save myself that money. And because of where you were at, I *WAS* able to save myself that money. And very helpful that was too.

I didn't save myself any money from December through to the beginning of April, because it was too cold for me to ride the SV in to town (and it needed servicing). But I was dependent on using it to get to and fro from the station, because Binky was not working.

So when you asked for it back in February because you need it for transport and to sell; and when you asked for it back so that I could sell it to Andy, I pleaded with you to let me hold onto it.

I had discussed buying it off you last year, because I had found that I enjoyed riding it more than I thought I would. And I have no doubt that I would have mentioned giving you £2k for it, as and when I was in a position to give you *ANY* money for it... I.e. after I'd been able to give you the money back from the loan.

If that became £1500 over time, it's because a) I wasn't in a position to give you any money, so what difference did it make if I wasn't giving you £1500 or not giving you £2000? And b) when you said you wanted to sell it to Andy for £1500, I figured fine, £1500 it is then. But again... Still no difference, as I couldn't give you £1500, much less £2000.

If you picked up on any reluctance to commit to any amount of money, £1500 or £2000, it was because I knew that paying you for the bike pretty much blew away my strategy of economising by using a bike that hadn't cost me anything to get into and out of London.

Honestly..? I fully anticipated that as and when I'd been able to give you the £1500 for the SV...

...I would continue to give you whatever additional money I could spare for as long as you needed me to. If that was £500 shortfall in SV valuation... So be it... And even if after that, you needed more, just like I needed the money you loaned me 2 years ago, and if I was able...

...Why wouldn't I give you more?

Really Tim, I can't emphasise how honestly I am telling you exactly what my thoughts have been on the matter over these last few months.

And really, really, *REALLY*:

The *ONLY* reason I was committed to paying you (any) money for the SV, was because I know how difficult things are for you at the moment.

If my rationale for riding a bike into and out of London is saving myself £150-200 a month on train fares... Where would paying £1500-2000 to you, or even paying £150-200 a month on HP for another bike fit into that?

Shelley *HATES* me riding a motorbike 80 miles a day in heavy traffic... For obvious reasons.

I don't particularly like not being able to catch-up on my reading... And both Shelley and I are keenly aware of the effect that my not cycling from Marylebone to the office and back every day has on my physique and general fitness levels.

What started off as an arrangement whereby I could borrow the SV without giving you any money for it, became, through a confluence of circumstances, me owing you £1500 or £2000 for it. And the *ONLY* reason I remained committed to seeing that change of circumstances through, was because I know how short of money you are.

That situation was no more planned than the situation you currently find yourself in was.

Just... Life.

If you had suddenly come into a whole bunch of cash and were no longer desperate or even slightly in need of the money for the SV... I had have been asking you to either return to the arrangement where I was only borrowing it... Or got you to help figure out how to get Binky up-and-running, and let you have the SV back.

Neither of us are in great financial shape at the moment. It's just one of those things.

If I *COULD* have given you £2000 two weeks ago, *BELIEVE* me: I would have.

Forget the SV... Forget repaying the loan... If I had that kind of money to give you, I would have, just as you gave me £2500 a couple of years ago, when you had it, with no particularly fixed repayment date agreed: just because you need it.

But I didn't and don't have that sort of money right now. So I couldn't and can't give it to you.

*THAT* is my perspective on this whole situation.

There's a whole bunch of other stuff of course, some of which is long-standing (37 years by your count), and other stuff that has been thrown up from this whole unpleasant breakdown.

If and when that other stuff needs to be discussed, it can only - and if really necessary - be discussed when you and I are back on an even keel. The above is all I need you to hear (/read) from me with regards this whole situation.

Personally... I think this whole situation has come about because you have found yourself in the kind of pressurised financial situation that Mike, Dad and I are far more experienced than you at having to deal with. They're situations that we would all rather not have to deal with, and we've only ever envied your ability to have avoided them thus far in your Life.

But things are what they are. They just have to be dealt with.

The most important thing to pay attention to, as we deal with these pressures, is that we don't lose our perspective, or lose sight of the perspectives of others.

And avoid at all times the temptation to turn on each other.

I promise you Tim that I haven't turned on you, and will never turn on you.

I'm not sure that right now, you can say the same, can you?

You've cast me in the role of a villain. That is not a role I fit, and I will continue to reject it for as long as you try to impose it on me.

We are in this together, brother.

Please try to never forget that.

With Love,

Stephen