In Reply To #29

In Reply To #26

The main difference between General Patraeus and I, is that *I* am not dependent on the Bush Administration for the advancement of my career.

Oh please holy, Bush may have the authority to officially replace or even fire Petraeus but if he tried anything like that simply because he didn't like the way the report sounded you can bet the outcry from the general public, congress, the military, and the international community would be far greater than anything we've seen yet.  Hell, if he tried that I could easily see an impeachment.

"Oh please" SuperJew! General Patraeus is only the Commander of U.S. Forces in Iraq, because he can be relied upon to officially and formally report news that is not damaging to the Bush Administration.

Look, you and Vax might witter on, and point out the bleedin' obvious, that I haven't the same Experience of Iraq that General Patraeus has; but I'm not calling the General's Report totally suspect and worthless, because I'm comparing his findings to my own. I'm calling the General's report horse-shit, because it totally contradicts what *EVERYONE* outside of the Bush Administration - including the BRITISH MILITARY - is saying.

ALL the NOT-Bush Administration views on the situation in Iraq are uniform and consistent: from the independent media; the Red Cross and Red Crescent; all NGO's in the area; ALL regional and national governments outside the U.S., *INCLUDING THE BRITISH*; the United Nations; and of course, many, *MANY* retired U.S. Generals, bi-partisan U.S. Blue Chip Committees, Iraq Veterans, and in fact, anyone outside of the White House, not under either a Republican or Democrat Party Whip.

The *ONLY* organisation in the *WORLD* that continues to paint an optimistic future for the U.S. presence in Iraq: is the Bush Administration, and those who work for it.

It is the disparity between the *UNIFORM* reports that *EVERYONE OUTSIDE* the Bush Administration, and the Bush Administration's OWN reports (howsoever gathered), that indicates how inaccurate and politically contrived General Patraeus' report *HAS* to be.

My speculating on WHY General Patraeus reported what he did, was just a question of making a basic assumption:

That when a subordinate is reporting to The Boss, on his own progress at making The Boss's Plan work, the subordinate will usually paint a more optimistic picture than is necessarily the case.

We know that General Patraeus' Report bears *NO* relation to *EVERYONE ELSE'S* Reports (which are otherwise uniform); and those of us not wilfully naïve, will conclude that the General put his own career ahead of the National Interest.

Who doesn't do that these days?

The argument of why General Patraeus may or may not have "tuned" his Report to mitigate his own failures, and the failure of his Commander-in-Chief's Plan (at least with the Plan in the hands of General Patraeus); is a distraction from the central and only really worthwhile discussion point about the General's Report.

And that is: why does the General's Report so optimistically contradict, the Reports being produced by the overwhelming consensus of those not tied directly, or under the authority of the Bush Administration?

It's you Brownshirts who have been taught to attack someone's personality, when you can't intellectually rationalise an opposition to their ideas or arguments. I could care less what General Patraeus - just another human being - feels or thinks about his own career, and/or the National Interest.

I was just pointing out the obvious.

If you Fan-Boys want to circle your wagons around the General, be my guest. As far as I'm concerned, the General's Report is as bogus and useless as everyone always knew it was going to be.

It doesn't change a thing.

Peace