Just in case any Americans were under the misapprehension that I am engaged in schadenfreude, as I look at the Economic situation in the U.S.; and/or in case any Brits (or other Europeans) were under an equal misapprehension that the Economic Earthquake that began in the U.S., is not going to affect the U.K. and Europe [b]*JUST AS CRITICALLY*[/b] as the U.S., I thought I'd begin yet another thread on the Global Economy, with as clear and succinct a declaration as I can possibly manage:

[b]*WE ARE ALL IN THIS TOGETHER*[/b]

There, I said it.

[b]*NO-ONE GETS OUT OF THIS MESS UNSCATHED*[/b]

There, I said it again.

It is also my hope that this thread might just become the last new thread that needs to be created about the Economic Meltdown that Humanity is now experiencing. I'm not sure that there's much mileage in creating a new thread, every time there is a new Economic Shock, since the whole mess is inextricably intertwined, and trying to delineate the likely effects, or apportion blame along Nationalistic or ideological lines, is a bit like trying to re-arrange the deck-chairs on the proverbial Titanic.

If some posters were getting sick of the number of threads on this Forum about Religion and/or Politics... Well I fear their prayers may have been answered; since there really is no other aspect of current or social affairs worth talking about at present, other than the Economy.

And if the hard-of-reading-comprehension thought that religious and political threads were tedious in the extreme, I'm sure they'll come to appreciate them as vibrantly interesting and stimulating, before all the upcoming talk on Economics has run its course...

However, it is worth pointing out that whilst Religious discussions really only pertain (possibly) to our Immortal Souls (if you believe you have one); and Political discussions often seem an exercise in ideological and intellectual mass-debation... It is impossible to overstate the way in which the current Economic crisis is going to directly and negatively impact each and every one of us, immediately, and for some time to come.

And if there is anything productive and positive that we can do together as a Community, I feel that it is to share our experiences, our understanding and our ideas about what is happening to the Global Economy that we, our families and our friends depend upon to exist at the levels of comfort we have become accustomed to.

Playing the "Blame Game" at this stage, is pretty academic, and can really only distract from our efforts to really understand what is happening right now, and what steps we can all take to immunise ourselves from the worst effects of this undoubted Financial Apocalypse.

Apart from anything else, we most of us live in notional Democracies and Republics, where our "Leaders" are, technically, those Human Beings we select and allow to represent us. We can't go too far down the Route of Causality, before we must, if we are honest, end up pointing the Finger of Blame at ourselves.

Our "Leaders", and the "Masters of the Universe" to whom we entrust the safety of our Global Economic System, are, after all, entirely predictable creatures. Our politicians' utmost priority is self-preservation; and our bankers' and financiers' singular ambition is self-aggrandisement. Yet, paralysed as these two groups are by such obvious subjectivity, it is to them - the people whom one way or another created this mess - that we look for salvation.

Who is the more foolish: the Fool, or the fools who follow him?

Because the epicentre of this Economic Cataclysm is the United States of America, it is easy for those of us who live outside American borders to scoff and sneer at the nation that was formerly "The World's Sole Superpower", finally getting its comeuppance. But as European banks fall prey to the same contagion, and indeed as one entire European Nation - Iceland - looks as though it will fall lock, stock and weird-female-singers into the same Financial Volcano engulfing the Global Economy, the fact that we are all inextricably joined at the Economic Hip becomes inescapable.

Europeans - Brits in particular - had a good laugh at last week's machinations in the U.S. Congress, when the former CEO of one of the five big Investment Banks (Goldman Sachs) that actually and practically created this mess, and who now just happens to be U.S. Secretary to the Treasury, held U.S. politicians to a $700 billion ransom. Paulson threatened that if the $700 billion "Bail-out" bill was not passed, then confidence in the Banking System and Stock Market would collapse completely. With his "promise" that passing the "Bail-out" would at least delay that collapse, if not completely avert it, by restoring investor confidence and increasing credit liquidity, Paulson forced a sufficient majority of politicians in the House of Representatives to ignore the overwhelming wishes of those who will be asked to re-elect them in a month's time, and vote to buy up the gambling losses of amongst other institutions, Paulson's own bank, Goldman Sachs.

The Bill was passed; and the bankers will, after the Elections, get their money.

But confidence in the Banking System and Stock Market continues to plunge anyway.

Oh how we non-Americans laughed.

But you know what, at least the American Government went through the pretence of asking the representatives of U.S. Citizenry for permission to give that much money to the bankers.

Today, in the U.K., the British Prime Minister (Gordon Brown) and the Chancellor of the Exchequer (Alistair Darling), caved into exactly the same demands of British bankers, without even such a pretence of Democracy.

http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/financetopics/financialcrisis/3157728/Gordon-Brown-hails-500-billion-bank-rescue-plan.html

Not only that, but the scale of the "Rescue Plan" for banks is even [b]*MORE*[/b] - $850 billion or so in total - than the U.S. "Bail-out".

And chances are it will have even [b]*LESS*[/b] chance of shoring up confidence.

So where does it go from here?

It is not an overstatement to say that Capitalism has reached a pretty terminal point, far worse than anything it has endured in its 300 year History.

Fact of the matter is that all those politicians and financiers frantically scrabbling to address the problem, are too blinded by their own instincts for self-preservation to put the needs of Human Society before their own.

Fact is that the next stops on this Capitalist Death Spiral is the collapse of the U.S. Dollar as the World's Reserve Currency, and the end of the British Pound Sterling as a currency altogether. These events are not very far away at all.

And it [b]*WILL*[/b] mean substantial financial and economic hardships for us all, no matter where we live.

But...

They say that "The Darkest Hour is always before Dawn". If the History of Social Evolution has taught us anything, it is that the Old must always make way for the New.

Our Economic Systems have been creaking along for several decades now, with those people who were in a position to effect a positive and proactive change to the Systems, being the one's guaranteed to lose out by such changes. And so therefore the necessary changes were never effected in a controlled, proactive and positive way.

But Change is Inevitable.

And if Change is not allowed to be effected in a controlled, proactive and positive way; then it will take place nevertheless, in an uncontrolled, reactive and negative way.

And that [b]*IS*[/b] what is happening now.

It will be far more painful a process of Change than it needed to be; but it will be the Change that was necessary for us all to move forward.

Now we just have to work out [b]*HOW*[/b] we are going to move forward.

Together.

[face_peace]