[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]So....your primary complaint is that successful people ("Big Business") have too much power and influence over America?  Since when has success been considered a crime?  Lobbyists are merely salesmen looking to influence "sell" their products/services to Congress who controls a massive purse for government contracts.

I guess I am a "whore" for trying to convince government engineers to use my company's specifications in government funded water contracts?  I may even take a few out to lunch to go over project details, no titty bars though......that looks bad on my expense report.  We even write legal analysis to influence upcoming water regulations that favors our services as well as the public good.

I feel so dirty.

Obama must feel dirty for trying direct Federal Money into his Chicago communities during his "community organizing" days...

There are lots of influences on our Government outside the ballot box.[/color][/quote]

Yet even as you seek to defend the status quo Foota, you highlight and acknowledge its profound flaws, more fully and brazenly than Sid or Traci or anyone else has so far managed.

The United States is supposed to be a democracy (not a [b]*D*[/b]emocracy - we all know the U.S. is a Republic). And a democracy is purely and literally: Rule by the People.

But what you have so eloquently described above, and what we all know to be the case, is that the United States is, in fact, a [b]*Plutocracy*[/b].

From Wikipedia:

[quote][i][color=blue] Plutocracy is rule by the wealthy, or power provided by wealth. In a plutocracy, the degree of economic inequality is high while the level of social mobility is low. This can apply to a multitude of government systems, as the key elements of plutocracy transcend and often occur concurrently with the features of those systems. The word plutocracy (Modern Greek: πλουτοκρατία - ploutokratia) is derived from the ancient Greek root ploutos, meaning wealth and kratein, meaning to rule or to govern.[/color][/i][/quote]

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plutocracy

You and I have discussed in the past the idea that once a government is elected (with a four year mandate, in the case of the U.S. Presidency), it is then up to that governmental administration to decide how to govern: what decisions to take; what policies to enact.

I'm thinking particularly of conversations we've had where I've pointed out to you that more than 75% of the U.S. population oppose the continued occupation of Iraq. Or that similar numbers of Americans favour rapprochement with Iran, or would like to see the entire Middle East declared a nuclear weapons free zone; and indeed, many other Bush Administration policy enactments that are supported by only a quarter of the U.S. population.

Your retort is that a Presidential Administration would be hobbled by continual recourse to popular opinion. That sometimes necessarily tough decisions would be impossible to make, if the "sheep" were allowed to directly influence daily Government policy (rather than just be permitted to press a red or blue button once every four years).

And yet, here you are, not only describing but [b]*DEFENDING*[/b] the way in which those Americans (and many foreigners, particularly Israelis...) with considerable wealth are able to influence and direct government policy on a day-to-day basis.

And of course, you must defend that position, because it is your personal vocation.

Success then is not considered a crime; but using material success to disproportionately influence the actions and policies of a ruling government, invalidates the claim to be a democracy, and demonstrates quite clearly, the reality of a Plutocracy.

A very small proportion of the American populace (and supportive foreigners), are able to influence U.S. Government policies and actions, on a day to day basis, in a way that the average American citizen (and groups of American citizens) can only dream of.

You acknowledge this situation Foota, support and defend it.

You don't really even attempt to refute the charges levelled against your supposedly "democratic" system, but instead try to dismiss them out of hand as the fringe conspiracies of "nutjobs" and "whackos" - Tinfoil Hat-Wearers against The Man.

If you took your faith and belief in the American democratic system seriously, you would (you MUST) present a reasoned argument that would counter the charges against it. You would take allegations of impropriety seriously, and articulate a solid defence against those very serious charges.

Whether the use of Diebold voting machines directly affected the outcome of past U.S.elections, is more or less academic, given that the results of those elections and the policies and actions they facilitated, have now past. But you must acknowledge that there is enough serious and significant doubt about the use of the machines to warrant further investigation, and sensibly, a moratorium on their use until any alleged shortcomings have been identified, resolved, or found fully to have no merit whatsoever.

The legitimacy of any government representative elected via Diebold electronic voting machines is in doubt, until a thorough examination and validation of their operation and integrity has been carried out.

If this were any other society or country outside of the United States, the evidence about the weaknesses with the Diebold voting systems would be more than sufficient for you to dismiss any results they produced.

Personally, I think the issue of the voting machines is secondary to the much greater malaise in U.S.  elections, and governmental elections in the West and throughout the World in general.

Before the voting mechanisms even begin to factor in to Citizens' disenfranchisement in supposed democracies, there are the clear facts that you have described above.

They can be summed up quite simply by the term "Plutocracy"; and demonstrated quite clearly in the understanding we all have that the more money you have personally or corporately, the more easily you are able to influence government policy and action in your own favour.

Far more easily that is, than the poor Plebians, who only get to press a Red or Blue button every few years.

Peace