[quote=steelhed][color=indigo]Scare the shit out of the American people and they'll take exactly that which they feared, and still not even realise they've been duped.. Obama only talks so much about what he's about, and MCains not exactly heralding all either.. Neither candidate is going to be able to produce ALL promises, never have seen an elect able to, and some things are just pandering.. We'll see... I'm still very passionate about this and if i give up on the American people, it won't be til after this election.... Let's see if the American people can weather the "Fear" machine...[/color][/quote]

Thing is Steel, it's hard to see how Obama/the DNC aren't playing that "Fear" card as well.

Obama's policy positions on Afghanistan, "Terrorism" and the Russia-Georgia conflict are in more or less the same vein as the GOP's. The only real difference is not whether these "Wars"/conflicts should be fought, but whether they should be fought [b]*BETTER*[/b].

Obama is nowhere near advocating the same kind of radical change to America's foreign policy positions as Ron Paul and Denis Kucinich were; or even the geographic and diplomatic withdrawals that SomeGuy was talking about recently.

Because both candidates occupy more or less the same "Centre" (though Right-Wing, by the Rest of the World's standards...) positions, it's only an argument over who can best deliver the "Win" on these positions: More-of-the-Same-McCain; or Change-(But-Not-Really)-Obama.

If Obama was a truly different prospect as a Presidential Candidate, he would be educating U.S. Citizens on precisely the points you've made above: that the Bush Administration have been cynically manipulating them since 9/11, by exaggerating and playing on their Fears.

He might also describe in clear detail how the Bush Administration has shredded the Constitution, and focused Governmental power in the U.S. around the "Unitary Executive".

And I very much doubt he would have had the chutzpah to select Joe Biden as his running-mate either.

But I suspect that an incipient Obama Administration has its eyes on using precisely the same techniques and mechanisms as the Bush Administration has been utilising (for much more positive and beneficial reasons, of course... ;)), and has no wish to draw attention to them.

It really is worth pointing out, at this stage, that the President of the United States is no more than a front-man for myriad economic, corporate and geo-political interests. Your "Choice" is between the puppet on the left hand, or the puppet on the right hand.

With either outcome, the U.S. Electorate will be regarded as an irrelevant nuisance by those who attain power, needing only to be pacified and paralysed, to allow the continual servicing of crony interests to carry on unabated.

Peace