[quote=Megagameplayer][color=green]Wheres Holyman when you need him. Hey holyman if your reading this, explicate that poem. Make a thesis about that poem and prove the thesis with quotes ok. Thanks[/color][/quote]

Fuck Dude! You said up above, "If any of you, [b]other than Holyman[/b]..."!!!

So I figured my services weren't required..!

But since you've now asked so nicely... :)

Right, first things first, poetry is just another form of written communication.

The term "Poetry" can be used to describe many different forms of writing; it isn't antithetical to straight prose, and it doesn't imply a different activity or intent to other forms of writing.

Remember that many people enjoy poetry every day of their lives; it's just that when that "poetry" is put to music, and the words become "lyrics", rather than just words without an instrumental harmony or melody, people don't tend to let their preconceptions of what poetry is, get in the way of their appreciation.

If it helps then, you can think of poetry as popular music, without the music.

Usually. :)

The really great poets are capable of summoning images and moods in the reader's mind that are beyond anything even the greatest rock bands can produce from mere wooden/electrical instruments. But unlike musicians, poets allow the reader to create the background harmonies and melodies, rather than providing them as singers and bands will.

Now there are many different types of poetry. The earliest forms of story telling were poems. This because prior to the advent of the printing press and mass literacy, story [b]*CREATORS*[/b] relied on the ability of story [b]*TELLERS*[/b] to pass on those stories. To aid the story tellers, stories were presented as poems, with a rhythmic and repeating structure, where "only" the words changed from verse to verse.

In the oral tradition, this made it easier for story tellers to focus on the overall structure, rhythm and meter of the story; and then to slot in the salient points of the actually story, and descriptions of the characters and situations, which can and did vary according to the story teller's whim.

It isn't really until the Classical Age (Greeks and Romans) that we begin to see poetry move beyond its basic function of story-telling, and become something altogether more subtle and nuanced. The Classical intellectuals of Greece and Rome often ran the risk of getting on the wrong side of the dominant authorities, because their integrity frequently compelled them to speak or write critically of whichever government or authority held sway where they lived.

Here we begin to see the emergence of allegory in poetry. Rather than coming out with a direct and literal attack on a government or prominent individual, writers would use poetry to launch a kind of coded attack on their intended target.

These coded messages served two main purposes (possibly a third):

The first was obviously to criticise, without being punished; but beyond that, it was also a way of taking the piss out of someone who probably (hopefully) would never realise they were the targets of the poetry, because they didn't or couldn't understand it.

The second purpose was as a way of communicating with sympathisers. Anyone who [b]*COULD*[/b] see the hidden message, was almost certainly already looking for it, because they understood the principles and points of view of the author.

The third possible purpose, was possibly just the author showing off; showing that they were smart enough to thumb their noses at authority, without getting busted for it. A dangerous game, and one that often resulted in the author coming to a sticky end.

Right then, following the end of the Classical Age, poetry reverted to its more traditional function as a story-telling device. Through the Dark Ages, folklore tales and myths were propagated by wandering story-tellers, usually in return for food and shelter. In a time without mass media and mass literacy, you have to understand that these story tellers were as popular - if more anonymous - as modern day celebrities, or maybe News anchors...

Of course, I'm sweeping through the History of Poetry here, and I'm in no way covering all the bases. I'm also being pretty ethno-centric, focusing on Western Society. Because it was during the European Dark Ages that some of Islam's most enlightened minds were producing some of the most beautiful poetic imagery in Human literature. The same can be said for literary works in China and Japan, during the same period.

What we in the West tend to think of as typical poetry, really came into its own during the Renaissance and Enlightenment. It was from the 16th Century onwards that poets really began to play with language and imagery for its own sake, rather than as a medium for a particular message.

There is a corollary here with other artistic works, particularly paintings, which began to focus on the use of symbolism in their subject matter and composition.

The decline of religious domination that occurred in direct proportion to the rise of Enlightenment thought, intellectual and artistic expression, meant that artists began to focus more on ideas about Being Human, than being subservient to God.

Here then, poets began to use words to create an emotional response in their readers' imaginations. And it is this kind of activity and intent that we tend to understand as the meaning of poetry these days.

Rather than just coming out with a straight, analytical description of something, someone or a situation; a poet will use certain words, in a certain order, and written/read at a certain rhythm, to create that Emotional response.

And this is where poetry all starts to get a bit ambiguous.

For the literally minded individual, reading poetry can be a bit of a chore; and analysing it can seem an exercise in futility, or worse, intellectual masturbation.

If a poet wants to create a specific image in their readers' minds, or communicate a specific idea to them: why don't they just come out with it and damn well say what they mean?!? It would avoid a lot of confusion!

But that's kind of the point with poetry: it's about using words to create an Emotional connection between the author and the reader. The author [b]*WANTS*[/b] the reader to use their own imagination to complete the Experience that the poet has begun by writing his or her poem. To proscribe the exact definition that the reader [b]*MUST*[/b] apply to the words, is to defeat the object of poetry.

Of course, poems frequently have pre-conceived literal or allegorical ideas or imagery - otherwise they'd just be a bunch of random words. But how the reader is going to feel about those ideas or images is something a good poet leaves up to the reader. The poet's job is just to try and make sure the reader feels [b]*SOMETHING*[/b], anything. What that something is, will tell the reader more about themselves than the poet could possibly know.

All of which is by way of saying that when you read a poem for the first time, you shouldn't necessarily expect it to be some kind of allegorical code that needs to be analysed and cracked!

Let's take Oscar Wilde's poem then:

[quote][b]Symphony in Yellow [/b]An omnibus across the bridge Crawls like a yellow butterfly, And, here and there, a passer-by Shows like a little restless midge. Big barges full of yellow hay Are moored against the shadowy wharf, And, like a yellow silken scarf, The thick fog hangs along the quay. The yellow leaves begin to fade And flutter from the Temple elms, And at my feet the pale green Thames Lies like a rod of rippled jade.

[/quote]

This is not an allegorical poem.

Wilde is not trying to use some kind of coded imagery to communicate a secret message about his homosexuality, or his feelings about the state of London's theatrical community.

We know this, because there are no words in the poem that suggest a coded message, and no sense that he is using allegory to describe something hidden.

What there [b]*IS*[/b] in this poem, is a lot of artistic imagery; a lot of colour and a lot of texture; and there is artistic detail and movement.

The title of the poem gives a clue to Wilde's intentions with this particular poem. The title "Symphony in Yellow" is a contraction of the well used phrase, "A symphony of colour".

"A symphony of colour" is a way that we might describe a painting; and also a phrase we might relate to something occurring in nature. This gives us a clue to the idea that Oscar Wilde, a virtuoso artiste with words, is going to paint a picture for us, with words.

The "yellow" is nothing more complicated or hidden than the general appearance of London in the grip of smog: the "Pea-Souper" fogs that plagued London before the introduction of the Clean Air Act in the 1950's, which banned coal fires within Central London.

Everything he sees, from where he is standing in front of his lyrical "easel", is coated in the yellow haze of that fog/smoke mixture. He could be standing more or less anywhere along the Thames embankment as he paints his poetic "picture"; but anyone familiar with London will know more or less exactly where he is standing when he writes:

"The yellow leaves begin to fade

And flutter from the Temple elms"

Temple is the name of the area in London that is home to the chambers of London's legal profession, the barristers and solicitors. It isn't an allegory or a metaphor, just a geographical location.

Temple is on the north bank of the Thames, between Waterloo and Blackfriars Bridge. And anyone familiar with the area will know that the barges and wharves he refers to are on the opposite embankment.

So, the issue here is not that the poem is complicated, mystical or deeply metaphorical; but that you are looking for such, where there is none to be found.

It is a very simple poem, where Wilde is merely painting a picture of a typical London scene, familiar to any Londoner of the period. Now he could have just written:

"I stood by the Thames today, on Victoria Embankment by Waterloo Bridge. It was foggy. I saw a bus, and some people. I could also see some boats unloading on the other side of the river. They were unloading hay for the cab drivers' horses. It is autumn; and the leaves are falling of the trees. The Thames is wet, and stinks of shit."

But that's not very poetical. :)

So, he wrote a poem that was more artistic, more of a work of art. A painting where he uses words rather than pigments.

But the [b]*REAL*[/b] question, now that you know this, is:

As you read it, what does it make you [b]*FEEL*[/b]? :)

Peace