The activities, probity and peccadilloes of individual personalities should be completely divorced from the way that we govern ourselves as a Society.

Managing, developing and progressing a communal Society is a practical exercise, not a personal or moral activity.

If I go into a Starbucks and order a cup of coffee, I want to walk out with a decent cup of coffee. That is my measure of the person making and serving the coffee. I couldn't care less what they do when they are not making my coffee. I'm not remotely interested. If they don't or can't make me a decent cup of coffee, I will go and find someone who can, and never give them a second thought.

End of Story.

I have the same attitude to someone elected or appointed to Public Office: do your fucking job well, and I could give a fuck what else you get up to.

If a politician turned up on the scene and effected immediate, sweeping and demonstrably positive changes to all the things we know are fucked up about our governments, I would be delighted with him or her.

If it also turned out that they were a shit-eating S&M freak in their spare-time, and totally lied about it to avoid people being distracted by it, I wouldn't give a fuck.

So long as they were doing their job.

Our politics has become a popularity contest. We are completely and utterly distracted by the personalities paraded before us, and obsessed by their professed morality, personal probity and social conformity.

I could give a fuck how stupid Sarah Palin may or may not be. If it turns out she is some idiot savant, and actually, by luck rather than judgement, she demonstrated effective performance in resolving the many practical issues that Society faces, then she'd have my support.

I think Professor Noam Chomsky is a rather intelligent person. But if by some circumstance he was elected or appointed to Public Office, and turned out to be completely ineffective at doing anything but sitting around commenting on Society's challenges, then he would not have my support.

I watched "American Idol" this season. At the start of the televised finals, the top 13 contestants included the most talented, musical and artistic array of contestants I have ever seen on a talent show. Yet by the final, the two remaining contestants were - of that initial crop - the least talented, the least versatile, and the least naturally musical.

What they were however, was Middle-of-the-Road, squeaky-clean, anodyne, insipid and personality-challenged. They appealed to the broadest range of the largest demographic of American Idol voters: middle-aged women; and teenaged girls.

If "Best" means "least likely to cause offence to anyone", then the "Best" man won American Idol. But if "Best" means "most talented", "most naturally gifted", "most musical", then many far better contestants lost.

We have become far too obsessed with the personalities and personal conduct of our politicians. We overlook the most talented and able, in favour of the most homogenous and generic.

We like to tell ourselves that we don't want people preaching morality or enacting laws concerning morality, who cannot themselves stand up to the highest morality.

But we completely miss the point that preaching morality should not be a part of our politician's remit: that is the function of our, uh, preachers, rabbis and imams.

Our politicians are supposed to be developing and employing practical solutions to the many practical problems we face. Allowing them to play the "Personal Popularity" Game lets them off the hook. We don't hold them to any performance or productivity standard, other than that they must always please our moral sensibilities.

Meanwhile, our Societies have been taken over by corporations and financial institutions, for whom moral conscience and social responsibility are merely considerations for their P.R. departments, and nothing that a good advertising campaign can't resolve.

We should stop wasting our energies on personalities, and focus on performance.

[face_peace]