[quote=AudieMurphyIncarnate][color=red]If they had vetted Barry like this, he would have never gotten the nomination.  All this effort to destroy someone they claim is stupid and unelectable, makes no sense.  I honestly never understood the fascination with her.  [/color][/quote]

As I mentioned previously, political elections have got nothing to do with making sure the most capable and effective candidate is elevated to the most important post.

It is a popularity contest, based solely on a manufactured and relentlessly manipulated public image; an image that has no more basis in reality than that of a character played in a soap opera by an actor.

It is an extension of the culture we are raised to in the schoolyard. Who is in with the "In Crowd"? Who is "Most Popular"? Who is "Most Likely to Succeed"?

You can participate with this culture, if you like. Obviously you would never personally try to attain "Most Popular Student" status yourself, but you might be happy to hang around with, be associated with, and generally support a student who might or does occupy that status.

You will certainly take all steps to denigrate and dismiss anyone else who might try to knock your "friend" off the top-spot. Whilst you were never in the running to be "Most Popular Student" yourself, the fact that the Most Popular Student knows who you are, and in the collective mind of the Student Body, you are associated with him, means you will do everything you can to protect his position.

Heaven forbid that you might opt out of the whole Schoolyard Clique Culture. At worst, you might join the Clique that disdains the whole Clique Culture. You might dress all in black, wear eyeliner, and generally exhibit your Emotional Sensitivities - but only if you can find a sufficient number of other students doing likewise, so that you don't end up feeling like a complete loner.

And this all carries over into your adult life. You pin your team's pennant to your own mast, and you make sure that everyone knows what and who you support. You might even invest your entire social relevance and credibility into the fact that you are "Politically Aware", and "deeply engaged in the social, political and economic issues of The Day". You'll go to great lengths to justify and defend "your team" and its players.

Because if your team and its players are revealed to be self-serving, greedy, corrupt, hypocritical and malignant lizards: where does that leave you?

Oh sure, you can *EASILY* see the greed, corruption and malignancy of the *OTHER* Team: that's as plain as the nose on your face.

And that makes politics a dirty game, with no place for the faint of heart. That's why a small and unrepresentative number of the players on your own Team have to play a little rough, and occasionally use questionable tactics. Just so long as everyone is clear that your Team is in no way as self-serving, greedy, corrupt, hypocritical and malignant as those other reptiles.

Just so long as the other Team can be shown to be worse than our Team, right?

And that's why the U.S. Democrats have such a fascination with Sarah Palin.

She's a Godsend to them.

As an individual, she's currently trying to work out whether or not she should take a run for President next year; or if she should wait another four years so that she doesn't have to go up against Obama.

The Democrats and their supporters however, are *DESPERATE* for her to win the Republican nomination, since they consider her an even easier candidate for Obama to beat than any crazed Mormon.

Continually pointing out her flaws serves two purposes:

The first is that it makes Republicans instinctively rally around her; makes them naturally defend her. And this has the effect of raising the notion of her viability as a candidate amongst Republicans.

And the second purpose is that it builds the idea amongst non-Republicans that this woman is a complete fuckwit; and that if an when the GOP does nominate her as a Presidential Candidate, that will just demonstrate and underscore how shallow and vacuous the Republican Party is as a whole, if that's the best candidate they can produce.

Meanwhile, Obama can remain the Liberal darling, retaining a statesman-like aloofness, not sullying the Office of President with such tawdry dealings. If Palin or some other Republican wannabe wasn't on the front page, then Obama would have to be - 'cos it's unlikely he is going to have to deal with any serious challenge for the Democrat nomination.

And all the while that everyone is obsessing with personalities, there isn't a lot of room for discussion about the current President's performance, or the massive challenges that the U.S. currently faces, and in fact how little Obama has actually achieved, or is likely to achieve.

Not that any Republican President would or could do any better - least of all Sarah Palin.

But what the Hell. It keeps people occupied. It all makes people feel like they are emotionally engaged with something really serious and purposeful. And there's nothing that people like better than to blame other people for their problems.

The Economy is sinking into the sewers, the Empire is crumbling, and the Society as a Whole is despised the World over...

But at least the "Other Team" is more to blame for that than the Team that you support, eh?

[face_peace]