The roots of the Biblical Creation Story that most of us are familiar with through the Jewish, Christian and Islamic Traditions, go far deeper than many of us are aware.

"The Epic of Gilgamesh", generally regarded as the first (or earliest discovered) story in Human Literature, pre-dates the Old Testament by at least a millennium. It contains many of the elements familiar to us from Genesis, including the stories of Adam and Eve, the Garden of Eden, and the story of Noah and the Great Flood.

Cast the net wider than Mesopotamia and you can find similar - or at least analogous - stories in most of the World's religious, philosophical and cultural traditions.

But here's the thing. That story/those stories have been around for a very long time, but as far as most of us are concerned, we still find them wanting. As transcribed or as narrated, they don't really help us *UNDERSTAND* where we came from, who we are, or who we might be.

Now the Scientific Method isn't perfect. It completely discounts anything that cannot be empirically verified. And the experience of our senses and intuition, often hints at the presence of something or things that we haven't yet found a measure for. But what Science does give us is the opportunity for our understanding to develop and to grow; and even, with Time, to explore the unexplained phenomena that we are so far, only vaguely aware of.

Science acknowledges that any theory is falsifiable, in contrast to Religion's immutable dogma. Science provides us with "placeholder" answers that are intended to serve until something better comes along. And Science is self-improving too: as answers are continually sought by Scientists, the skills, methods and protocols used to discover answers also improve.

Faith is a wonderful quality. If we have but the Faith of a mustard seed, we can move mountains. But the uncritical white light of Faith also blinds us to greater understandings. If we have Faith in the idea that we are merely created beings, doing our Creator's bidding, then in our submission to a "Higher Power", we set aside any motivation to explore our Universe, to explore ourselves, and to increase our understanding of All That Is.

Yet Faith in our own abilities to push back the boundaries of our individual and collective understandings is what keeps us alive, as people and as a Society. It makes each new day different to the last. It places us in a Universe of infinite possibility, where Earth-shatteringly new dynamics are only a New Discovery away from us.

Faith in our own abilities and faculties then, is essential to keeping us each vibrant, dynamic and alive. But Faith in another's words, or their specifically described version of events, experience should have taught us by now, is a dead-end route to stagnation and ignorance.

And yet we still seem to take a Faith-based approach to politics, to the systems of government we have instituted to organise ourselves collectively.

Not everyone of course. Many of us have simply switched off completely from what appears to be an entirely shallow, self-serving and pointlessly acrimonious aspect of our Society. Any attention we might pay to politics rewards us only with evidence that we are entirely correct in our conclusion: that politics is a complete and total waste of Time.

But for those of us still attending the Revivalist Tents of politicians, their organisations, and the System as a Whole: shouldn't we recognise just how religious we have become about our politics?

We can be and frequently are as dogmatic and blindly ideological about our particular political allegiances as any fundamentalist or zealot. We work from a position of absolute self-righteousness and will brook no argument or criticism that seeks to work loose the calcification of our social and political judgement.

It is a matter of Faith that we are Right, and that everyone else who disagrees with us is, by definition, wrong.

When faced with a new idea, a new perspective, or just a different way of considering an issue, we immediately begin our rebuttals from the conclusion that the new way of thinking *MUST* be wrong (or we would already believe it to be right); and it is just a matter of working backwards from that conclusion until we have (mostly) figured out and (mostly) explained *WHY* it is wrong.

Now where else in Society, apart from politics, do we see that kind of "thinking" demonstrated?

Whatever else we might surmise about our individual and collective lives, it is impossible to deny that we are involved in a process of growth and development. The growth of our physical selves may be measured by height, weight and strands of hair; just as the development of our collective lives may be measured by our technological achievements and advances.

But when I die, I sincerely hope that my own Life will not be measured solely on how tall, fat or bald I have become since birth. Instead, I would hope to assess my Life's development by the growth of my understanding, the breadth of my personal experience, and the challenges that I have overcome.

I would hope too that when I leave this Planet, the Society that dominates it will have become not just more technologically capable, but more culturally and intellectually developed, more compassionate, more harmonious, and more Enlightened. Indeed, in some small way, I would hope to be able to recognise my own positive contribution to such a Collective Endeavour.

I do not think that I will become all I may be, if I close my mind to any and all alternative possibilities and perspectives. And I cannot see how my World may become all it can be, if the prevailing culture is geared towards a dogmatic adherence to a uniform ideology, or a Faith-based acceptance of the definitions supplied by a cultural and demographic minority.

Science and the Scientific Method have an inherent humility built into them. Science seeks always to push back the boundaries of understanding. Science takes an open-minded approach, and as a result, opens minds.

Religion, and a religious attitude, cannot escape the equally inherent qualities of arrogance and self-righteousness. Religion seeks to thwart understanding, to close people's minds, to get people to accept on Faith, obviously inaccurate explanations.

And I wish our politics, and our governments, would be more like the former, and less like the latter.

[face_peace]