[quote=B055H0G][color=green]WTF?

Holyman takes a fucking Summer vacation, EvilFish is here to tie us over?[/color][/quote]

Sorry Boss.

Wish it were a fucking summer vacation (or even better: a summer vacation fucking). Truth is that I have been (and still am) busier than a bee that's just been appointed Lead Co-ordinator for Keeping Bees Busy at this year's Busy Bee Conference...

Or, more truthfully: my firm has this year taken on the strategic programme leadership for three "Mega-Projects":

The Cross London Raillink - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crossrail; the Minas-Rio Iron Ore Pipeline in Brazil; and we're leading British Gas' entry into the race to build a Coal Seam Gas pipeline across Western Australia.

That last is the most exciting, because there are 5 companies competing to be the first to get a pipeline built from a Coal Seam Gas refinery in Western Australia, out to the coast. The first company to get their pipeline built is all but guaranteed to win at least 75% of the subsequent supply operation; second place is likely to get the remaining quarter. And that means that 3rd, 4th and 5th place will mean billions spent for zero return.

Anyhoo, it's my job to set-up the Business Intelligence (B.I.) systems and associated technologies. So my team and I are working pretty much flat-out at the moment. Should have a bit of a lull now that we're getting into the August holidays, but come September we'll be back at the grindstone.

And on the Home Front: Holyboy 2.0 has just had his first birthday, and has just started walking. And, well, he's just at that age where I really don't want to miss any more time with him than I have to, 'cos it goes so quickly, and before I know it he'll be an irritating brat getting into trouble at school, and then an exasperating teenager getting into trouble with the Police. So I'll take as much of these Golden Years as possible. :)

And talking of irritating children...

I've been dipping onto =PBF= for a quick read here and there where I can, and obviously couldn't help but notice the verminous EvilFitch infestation...

I figured it was best just to let EvilFitch be EvilFitch, and have him blight others' time on this forum, the way he's blighted mine in the past.

The thing is with EvilFitch is that he takes any attempt to point out his obvious social and intellectual shortcomings as a validation of his presence here. It's not that he's just "in it for the argument"; it's that antagonism and negative social interaction is the only mode of discourse he has ever known. In that sense, he isn't too dissimilar (unsurprisingly) to his brother, JesusFitch; just that his tone and style is infinitely less fragrant and more intolerable than JF's.

But hey, I'm not telling anyone anything they don't already know, least of all EvilFitch. And I'm pretty sure I've said all I ever need to say about and to him, so I figure this time I'll just let him drown in his own effluent, or not, as the Fates decree.

I hope to be around a little bit more over the next month, but I've kind of gone Post-Political in recent months, so don't feel the same urge to post the 15-page philosophical and political treatises I have in the past.

Life is about Living, after all. And if watching Holyboy 2.0 grow from a seed into a vital, curious, excited and functional personality has reminded me of anything, it is that thinking about and sharing what is going on in our own lives, and in the lives of our families, friends and colleagues, is immeasurably more interesting than speculating on the actions and inactions of other human beings who we are unlikely to ever meet, let alone connect with.

Obsessing about other peoples' lives is a shocking way to waste our own Life Experience.

[face_peace]