[quote=phatphreddy1][color=green]Does that make it right?

I guess the National Socialists would think so.[/color][/quote]

I doubt they would, since they would be able to detect the criticism aimed at them.

Personally, I think it [b]*IS*[/b] the right thing to do.

First off, we're only talking about words here, and words only have the power we give them, or allow them to have.

Take the word "nigger". Until around 30-40 years ago, it was used commonly by British and American people to denigrate people of African decent. The word had a lot of power, because the laws and social dynamics of the time seriously disadvantaged people of colour, and the use of the word "nigger" was pretty much a punctuation mark highlighting that inequality.

But following the movement for Civil Rights in the 60's, and the subsequent drives for political correctness and human rights, most intelligent human beings would think far worse of a white person using that word, than of whoever it was being applied to.

And furthermore, those people who were once stigmatised by being called "nigger", have now flipped it around to claim the word for themselves, completely inverting the "power" of the word.

Now riffing on a single word like "nigger" or "kyke" or "yid" has only limited possibilities for post-modern humour; but playing around with whole attitudes and mindsets is ripe for cariacature and satire. And that's a lot of what is going on in this thread Phreddy.

Apart from anything else, there are several members of this Community, including myself, who have grievances with the current actions of the human beings living in and governing Israel and the Occupied Territories. I for one would not want my political, principled and secular objections to the actions and policies of the State of Israel to be confused with anti-Semitism.

Successive Israeli Governments have repeatedly received a "pass" from the International Community, for actions that would have been stridently condemned and opposed militarily, if they were the actions of a non-Jewish Government. But because those who support the Israeli Government are so quick to throw out the charge of anti-Semitism against anyone who criticises Israeli policies and actions, having a secular and non-God-bothering discussion about Israeli & Arab politics is next to impossible.

Most people today couldn't give a flying fuck about the hokey-shaky religious foundations of the modern State of Israel, nor the religio-ethnicity of the majority of Israelis. The facts about Israeli policies and actions would be the same whether Israelis worshipped YHWH, Jehovah, Allah, Brahma, Osiris or the Flying Spaghetti Monster (May It Be Forever [i]Al Dente[/i]).

Attempts to justify the clearly egregious actions of the Israeli Government by hiding behind charges of anti-Semitism, or excusing those actions because of the Holocaust, are not only disingenuous and counter-productive, they are largely irrelevant.

We're all of us here, Children of the Internet Revolution: like we could give a fuck what creed or colour another person is any more. Everyone is as deserving of ridicule and derision as anyone else.

It's a single planet, with a single dominant species, and we all bleed the same colour.

Peace