[quote=Aggie'sRevenge][color=green]Holyman, most of the people I know, Repubs and Dems both are disgusted with our government and the parties.  I find myself leaning more towards Libertarians, except on drug issues.

Fiscal Responsibility; Limited Government; Right to Choose; Strict Constitutionalist

But it seems all this get thrown away in pursuit of misguided activities that harm the US.

Maybe we just need to scratch the government and party system and start over.[/color][/quote]

Yes, [b]*WE*[/b] do.

All Western Democracies that practice Two Party political systems are suffering a major crisis with Democratic legitimacy: but the systems in the U.S. and the U.K. are in the most critical state by far.

George W. Bush and his supporters trumpet the model of American Democracy, and fight Wars to try and spread it. But when it comes down to it, what is the nature of the participation of American Citizens in the Democratic process?

All it really comes down to is the opportunity to press a Red or Blue button once every 2 years. And if you live in a solidly Red or Blue State, and your views are the opposite, you might as well forget about voting altogether, since your vote will never count for anything.

It's the same situation in the United Kingdom, so please don't think I'm ragging on the U.S. here. Participation in General Elections in the U.K. is so woeful, that Tony Blair's Party - New Labour - was re-elected to Government in 2005, with only 22% of the Popular vote. Declining voter participation does not harm the political status quo one bit; and it has reached the stage now, where there are no evident ideological differences between the two main (Red and Blue) parties in the U.K. The Conservative and Labour parties merely jostle over who can present them self as the Party that appears to best represent the "Centre". The terms "Conservative" and "Labour" are now utterly redundant.

The idea of British Parliamentary Democracy is that voters in the different constituencies in the U.K., elect a citizen from amongst themselves, to represent them and their issues in Parliament. But in practice, elected MP's must put the interests of the Party they belong to, over and above the interests of their constituents. British political parties practice the "Whip System"; which means that when a "Three Line Whip" is issued by a Party's Central Office, all Party members in Parliament are required to vote as their leadership tells them to, or face expulsion from their Party: even and usually [b]especially[/b] when voting in such a way would go against the wishes of the constituents that MP is meant to represent.

In the U.S., there is a sort of horse-trading system that takes place with particularly sensitive issues, such as those you've listed above Aggie.

Somewhere down the lines, the Republicans and Democrats decide which issue they are going to represent, and which issues they are going to oppose. American voters are then expected to pick "Red" or "Blue", based on which issues are most important to them. And you end up with the situation where the Party that is "Pro-Life", is the same party that is "Pro-Gun", or "Pro-Death Penalty".

Now take for example the issue of Iraq. At least two-thirds of American citizens want to see U.S. troops brought home immediately from Iraq; and they consider that the whole adventure has been a colossal mistake. But there are no mainstream candidates that reflect those desires. For some reason, those candidates that [b]*DO*[/b] represent the wishes of 2/3's or Americans, in respect to Iraq - say Ron Paul or Dennis Kucinich - are sidelined as fringe whackos.

There is something seriously wrong with Representative Democracy in the West; and that is basically that no-one wants to admit that the whole System is out-of-date, and needs to be fully revised to reflect the greater diversity in 21st Century Society, and the greater intellectual emancipation of its Citizens.

The situation we have now, in most Western nations, is that those who do bother to vote, tend to vote for the candidates they find least disagreeable. And their decisions about the disagreeability of candidates is invariably heavily influenced by negative campaigning.

I think it is [b]*IMPERATIVE*[/b] that we need to scratch the two or three hundred year old Governmental and Party Systems, and start over with something new.

Unfortunately, the people in a position to initiate and effect such a change - existing politicians - are those who are guaranteed to lose out with such changes. Therefore it behoves the Citizens of Western Democracies to effect such a change for their own benefit.

[quote][color=blue]We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.--That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, --That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness. Prudence, indeed, will dictate that Governments long established should not be changed for light and transient causes; and accordingly all experience hath shewn, that mankind are more disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed.[/color][/quote]

Peace