In Reply To #51

Now, with that said, I'll argue that it wasn't the religion itself that held back knowledge but the leaders of Europe whether they were clergy or nobility.  As that wiki explained, the best way to keep people under control was to keep them stupid and everyone in power wanted to maintain control.  The high ups in both places were educated and neither wanted cede control to the common man.  Christianity facilitated an easy excuse to deny some people an education but I'm pretty sure that the same thing would have went on without religion excuse.  Lust for power is the problem here, not the scripture.

I completely agree with you.

Religion has ever been used thus: to bridge the moral gaps in men's materialist ideologies.

It is not Religion that has caused more Wars than anything else; it is Religion that has been used to justify more Wars than anything else. But, to be fair to the Materialists, the Religionists have only got themselves to blame.

The Religionists spend so much Time squabbling amongst their selves, about the exact definition of that which they all insist must remain indefinable, that it's hardly surprising that men of more definite tastes usurp the Religionists' Spiritual Authority amongst the masses, to satisfy their own, more down-to-Earth desires.

Pretty much from the time of the First Crusade, the Vatican became a popular and military force that ruled an Earthly empire. Most of the worst excesses of the Vatican were carried out by people who had no interest in Spiritual matters whatsoever. Only in the extremes of the Spanish Inquisition do we see true fanaticism, the kind of fanaticism we see reflected at the edges of Islamic Society today. For the most part, the secular feudal nobility and the Catholic clergy were interchangeable. Only the Catholic clerical practice of celibacy prevented the Vatican fully intertwining with the Royal European Courts.

Christianity provided a means of control, at least the form of Christianity determined to be "official" provided that means of control (Jesus probably wouldn't have recognised it...). But it could have been any form of religion that was used to articulate that control. It still can be today; it doesn't even need to be a religion about God...

But we shouldn't be too harsh on our ancestors. I don't believe that there were any secret, conspiratorial councils, where the "Great and the Good" met to discuss the fates of millions of peasants. Their use of religion as a means of control was rarely a conscious act, and barely noticed by all but the most perceptive of Kings and Popes.

No Conspiracy Here.

Humanity has an innate Spiritual drive, which compels it to express itself creatively. This creative expression takes the form of physical, mental and emotional growth and development. Every human feels an irresistible pull through Time, towards a greater version of their self. And they all get there by expressing themselves physically, mentally, and emotionally.

Certain religious practices, such as the idolisation and abject worship of a Divine Other, suppresses a human's ability to fully express themselves mentally, emotionally, and most frequently, physically (it is mostly that last suppression that leads to all the violence, btw... :)). Continually aspiring to an Ideal, which the Clergy insists can never be achieved, is just the kind of waste of Time humans get so violent about.

Now, to hold in one's hand, the means to write out and declare by what manner others will express their selves, physically, mentally and emotionally, is to hold in one's hand, an instrument of great power. Whether you are signing a Papal Bull, or the Magna Carta, you are exercising great power and authority over other humans' self-expression.

And when you are the single person in your community, who can read and make sense of all that written authority; and indeed, on the minor technicalities, you're even allowed a little license of your own to exert a petite authority... Well, doesn't that just send shivers down your spine... :) You might even be tempted to exercise your own "Great Power", on some of the local serving wenches.

Literacy didn't spread because the Catholic Church conspired to ensure that it didn't.

But Roman Catholicism did provide the means by which the spread of literacy could be and was retarded.

Peace