[quote=AlaskanViking][color=red]Now, do you believe that government is not only [i]not[/i] inefficient, but [i]MORE[/i] efficient than the private sector?[/color][/quote]

It is Apples and Oranges in my opinion.

There are certain social activities that should be the business of Government; and certain social activities that should be the business of Private Corporations and Individuals.

I work with both Private and Public Sector organisations and see neither one nor the other exhibits a greater or lesser general efficiency than its counterpart.

I guess a lot of it would have to come down to how you would set the metrics for efficiency, and that has to vary depending on what is being delivered.

If we define efficiency has, "being productive without waste", then I wouldn't say that either the Public or Private Sectors has a monopoly on this.

If we define it as "producing the desired effect", then again, neither Sector automatically wins the Prize.

As we discussed earlier in this thread, there is a distinction between necessary utilities, and what might be termed, "Optional Extras".

I would say that necessary utilities would include:

Water supply

Energy supply

Health services

Basic nutrition and food

Basic shelter/Social housing

Transport infrastructure

Education

Policing/Law Enforcement

"Defence"/National Security

Emergency Services (e.g. Fire & Rescue)And more arguably:

Telecommunications

Data communications

And everything else you can think of, I'd put under "Optional Extras".

Now I realise that some of the items I have put on that list are open to never-ending debate AV... But let's leave that for any one of the other threads that regularly arises for such discussions. :)

Let's just say for now that *I* consider those essential, life-giving and life-supporting facilities as services essential to the maintenance of Human health and well-being.

And because of that, I do not feel that the measure of efficiency is how financially profitably those services can be delivered; but how reliably, effectively and ubiquitously they are delivered.

They are not services that people can *CHOOSE* whether or not to take: they *MUST* be taken (or be available to be taken), if those people want to get on with their lives.

In all cases, these necessities for living are not susceptible to "Value Add".

For example, you either have a clean, safe, reliable supply of drinking water, or you don't. And once you've got that supply, there is little scope for improvement or enhancement.

Same with Health Services: you actually want to be in the position where you *DON'T* need to use the service - because you are fit & healthy. But when you are not fit & healthy, you want immediate access to a service that will get you fit & healthy as soon as possible.

These are characteristics that differ completely when it comes to "Optional Extras".

Now you might *WANT* to have a BMW, Ferrari F40 or a hot-rod parked in your garage; but if you don't have one, you are not going to die for the lack. You might *PREFER* to drink Champagne rather than water; but not having Champagne available to drink is not going to prevent you from drinking water.

Now, I'm not about to make the leap from establishing the vital necessity of these services and facilities, to suggesting that they should be delivered by individuals working for the "Common Good", or out of the kindness of their hearts.

Quite the opposite, in fact.

I believe it to be morally reprehensible that doctors, nurses, teachers and fire-fighters currently get paid a pittance, compared to bankers, lawyers and sports stars.

But that is just an opinion.

I think in a more functional society, those working in industries and services that add to or guarantee the vitality of Society should be highly prized, and highly rewarded. Society's highest wages *SHOULD* be paid to those in the Healthcare, Teaching and Emergency Services professions.

Again, just my opinion.

But with regard to Public versus Private Sector efficiencies:

It is my personal experience that with regards to the delivery of essential services, those organisations required to return a profit to private shareholders focus more on that, than on the efficient, reliable and safe delivery of the services required.

Private organisations contracted to deliver essential services have a tendency to scrimp on maintenance and improvements, whilst inflating charges to as much as the market will bear.

But we've discussed all this previously...

As I have also stated, I *DON'T* believe that politicians, civil servants and Public Sector workers should be in the business of utility service provision; but I *DO* believe that *OWNERSHIP* of essential utilities and services should be in the Common Trust.

Let Private Sector organisations design, engineer, install and maintain utility infrastructure and essential services: just don't let them set the fee rates.

Again, I'm not suggesting that Highway builders or telecommunications providers should work for free or even cost: the amounts they charge for providing installation and maintenance can still be set by "The Market", and be tied to transparent performance indicators and metrics. And given the Social Utility of their profession and expertise, there is every reason to argue that they should earn *MORE* money than they currently do. Just that they earn the money for the delivery of their expertise, rather than gouge profits from those who depend and absolutely rely on the services those organisations help to deliver.

In other words then:

Let "Government" *OWN* essential services and utilities, and pay the Private Sector a fair, Market-set rate to install, maintain, deliver and improve same.

And let the Private Sector concentrate on owning, developing and delivering all those other goods and services that are, and should be, a private matter for those purchasing them.

The required efficiencies will then follow automatically.

[face_peace]