Oh boy...

All rather busy with my own Quantitative Easing programmes at the moment. And my own Spousal Reserve Board has instructed me that Friday evening's are *NOT* for sitting plugged into a computer...

So I'll try and put my own opinion across as fully as I can, but it's not going to be a full-blown essay this time I'm afraid.

Alright, firstly, to set the scene and to address the issue about the Federal Reserve's status as either private institution, Quango, or full-blown government department.

The truth is actually quite convoluted, not at all straightforward, and given the importance of a Central Bank to a Nation's (particularly a democratic nation) economic management, quite frighteningly ambiguous.

Hoff is correct about the 7 Fed governors being appointed by the Executive Administration of the U.S., which technically gives the "U.S. Government" a majority on the FOMC. But if the theory is that with this majority, the President gets to force through whatever he wants, then that would rather make the FOMC and also perhaps the entire Federal Reserve a bit redundant.

Fact of the matter is that career politicians *LIKE* to separate out the perceived responsibility of managing the Economy. It's classic Public Sector. When the shit hits the fan, the government can point the finger at the Central Bank, and the Central Bank can shrug and point the finger back at the government.

Just when the population really need firm, authoritative and decisive action, the government and the Central Banks can play Responsibility Ping-Pong. It's by no means a situation exclusive to the United States. Shit, as best as I can fathom, at the moment, the same situation appears to be taking place in China of all places, and they are technically (at least ideologically) still supposed to have a Command Economy...

Of course, the question of Government or Private Banking ownership of the Federal Reserve (or any other Central Bank) is only a matter for debate if you believe that the Government (of just about any G20 nation these days) is *NOT* a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Banking Sector in the first place.

The act of the President of the United States appointing Federal Reserve governors and chairmen is only a bit of play-acting to keep the masses lulled into somnolence. At this stage of the proceedings, the Executive Administration of the United States is a sub-department of Goldman Sachs, and pretty much has been since the end of the Clinton Administration. It's much the same with the Senate, and only marginally less so with Congress because power isn't as concentrated in that particular house...

But like I say, that's not a situation exclusive to the United States, not by any stretch.

Alright then: "Quantitative Easing 3".

To be clear here, we are not talking about the Federal Reserve printing loads and loads of new dollar bills and distributing them amongst the populace. What we're talking about is the Federal Reserve pledging to spend $40billion a month buying up the toxic sludge of Mortgage-Backed Securities that is still irradiating and polluting the entire Economic System.

Yup, nothing has fundamentally changed in the four years since the wheels came off... Or rather: the curtain was pulled back by a mangy sub-prime dog to reveal the actual doddery old fools pulling the levers for the formerly fearsome Financial Master Wizards of the Universe.

The object of the (Federal Reserve's) exercise here is to keep stocks afloat. It has got fuck all to do with alleviating unemployment and never has had. The issue of inflation is a distraction, a sophomoric talking point at best.

I mean, the Federal Reserve *WISHES* that QE would encourage inflation. U.S. exports would become cheaper; home buyers would find it easier to repay debt; corporations might just be encouraged at the prospect of higher future sales. Problem is that wages generally do not keep up with inflation - particularly in times of high unemployment - so workers will not be able to buy all these new goods and services that will magically appear...

You can't expand for profit when your customers have no money.

And here's where the real lie of QE3 is exposed. Businesses just aren't expanding or even looking to expand at the moment. Why would they? The economy is in recession, consumers have little or no disposable income, who is going to buy any new product or service? (Members of the Cult of Apple don't count: they are as brainwashed as they are likely to be in deep financial distress.)

So giving Banks lots of free money to loan out to businesses so that those businesses can expand is purely Public Relations bullshit to pacify the masses.

You need to look at alternative ways the Federal Reserve could be spending the cash it is creating through QE.

Instead of buying up the toxic MBS' that created this mess in the first place (entirely *SOCIALISING* the losses - if not full blown *COMMUNALISING* them...), why not use it to instruct the banks to write down the principal on mortgages that are clearly underwater?

We can (we must) accept that property values in the run-up to the collapse of the Debt-Bubble were over-inflated, by either the deliberate and cynical, or incompetent and short-sighted actions of the Banks, Central Banks and Governments.

OK.

But there are many millions of people who still hold mortgages that were taken out during that period, for which the principal is *STILL* an amount over-inflated by that cynicism/incompetence.

Why not use the $40billion a month to write-down citizen's mortgages?

The banks would benefit because of the detoxifying effect this would have on all those bundled MBS's. And the mortgage-holders would sure as hell benefit, to the point where they might feel relaxed enough to start spending money again. So why not do it like that, rather than buy up the bonds that were at the heart of the crisis?

Because this is all about looking after the big banks and brokerages; the organisations that fund, own and therefore control most of the Developed World's governments.

This isn't conspiracy theory. It has got fuck all to do with Bildebergers or Tripartite Commissions, or any other nonsense like that. This is all out in the open, all out in plain sight. It's just that the High Priests of Finance Capitalism have woven an air of mysticism and convolution around what are essentially very basic Economic concepts.

They are trying to have the curtain fall back into place so the rest of us in the Emerald City will go back to staring at the scary face of Economic Cataclysm, and not question the actions, motivations and senility of the stupid fuckers desperately pulling levers behind the curtain.

Unfortunately that's as much as I can rant about tonight: the chick in the Red Slippers is telling me I've got to go with her right now.

My only comment to 25th and Hoff  is that from what you've both written, I'm struggling to see where you are in disagreement. I really wouldn't get bogged down on the issue of who owns or controls the Federal Reserve - leave that to the Tinfoil Hat Brigade. Hoff's certainly got the Macroeconomic chops to track the ebb and flow of all the bullshit; and you've got the indignation and tenacity to keep asking the right questions 25th.

You're not on opposite sides in this debate, best as I can read.

:>_