I read "First Blood" by David Morrell, just after seeing the trailer for the first film, but before seeing the actual movie.

The book seemed awesome to my 12- or 13-year old mind, and was definitely Morrell's finest hour. Flicking back through it twenty years later, I found my taste for prose and character development had moved on a little, but it was still a good story.

The "First Blood" film itself had a real impact on me too, and certainly helped mute by Pacifist principles long enough for me to sign up for the Army. And the song that plays over the closing titles of "First Blood" is still one of my very favourites: "It's a Long Road (when you're on your own)".

"First Blood" is a more easily digestible version of "The Deer Hunter", and really focused on the issue of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, and the problems of soldiers returning to civilian life, after extended exposure to de-humanising brutality. It was a perfect role for Stallone, and after "Rocky" (and possibly "Copland"), is Stallone's best performance as an actor.

Thing is, at the end of Morrell's book, John Rambo is killed by Colonel Trautman; and that really was the only way to end a story about the kind of human wreckage and casualities created during War, but still suffering long after the War is over. Having been brutalised by his experiences in Vietnam, John Rambo could never find Peace in a "normal" Life; and Trautman knew that the only decent thing to do, was put him out of his misery. It was that denoument that made "First Blood" such a powerful story.

But such are the vicissitudes of the Hollywood Money-Making machine, that a filmed sequel was inevitable; and even David Morrell was compelled to write a piss-poor sequel to "First Blood", which was little more than an extended screenplay.

You'd have thought, given the current climate, that following "Rambo III", where Stallone essentially helps an on-screen avatar of Osama bin Laden, create Al Qaeda, the Rambo franchise would have become bankrupt (I'll bet "Rambo III" doesn't get much airtime on Network TV in the 'States...). But then, since "Charlie Wilson's War" seems to be celebrating - without a hint of irony - the fact that Al Qaeda was funded and promoted by a U.S. Congressman, perhaps not...

Peace