Here it is then.

Work first:

Got myself a very nice situation with a Japanese Bank. Multi-year project doing My Thing, at a higher day rate than I've ever earned. Seems to have been a 25% fee-rate increase across the board. No complaints here!

Meanwhile, at Home:

My relationship with the person formerly known as Holywoman, did not survive Lockdown.

To be honest, it has been on its last legs since not long after we moved out of London.

TPFKAHW couldn't find a sobriety (AA/NA) group around here that suited her sense of self. She'd gone from meetings with D-List celebrities with coke habits, to farmhands who were drinking too much diesel.

She fell of the wagon in 2017, and began her path to self-destruction.

As you may imagine, there are some exciting and salacious details about the Breakdown that would easily fill the average person's vicarious Wank-Tank, but I'll spare you those for now.

The bigger issue that came to the fore at the time though, was one of child neglect. In 2017, she decided and declared that she didn't want to be a mother any more, and began a four-year Midlife Crisis.

I went along with things (for the Fringe Benefits...) for a while, but I pretty much threw in the towel when I got busted for drug-driving on one of her "adventures". I recognized how we were neglecting the Holyboys; she didn't.

I called time on her just before lockdown... And was then stuck with her through lockdown. Including when she broke lockdown on New Year's Eve, and brought the Covid back into the house.

Even as things got as financially tight for me as they have ever been, she continued to piss money away on drugs and clubbing, whilst making zero preparations or allowances for the fact that she would be leaving the home.

Holyboy 2.0 (13 y/o) made it clear to TPFKAHW that he was not at all interested in leaving with her. Holyboy 3.0 (7 y/o) on the other hand, suddenly had his mother back (through Lockdown), and was tilted more towards her.

The Plan was that TPFKAHW would move into social housing somewhere in the area, on account of her total inability to earn money and support herself (she has never worked a day in her life - occasional improvised Yoga classes don't count...). And once she got herself settled, HB 3.0 would move between his two homes.

But then...

On September 11th, 2021...

I told TPFKAHW that my new partner was somebody who she had introduced me to.

Someone that TPFKAHW had been out with many times and revealed way too much about herself to.

I also told TPFKAHW that I would be marrying my new partner next year.

Two days later, TPFKAHW fled to a Woman's Refuge on the South Coast of England, with HB 3.0, where she remains today.

Child Custody proceedings are underway, initiated by me, because TPFKAHW isn't capable of doing anything by herself.

HB 2.0 has pretty much written his mum off; as has HB 1.0 - who you may recall is TPFKAHW's son from her previous marriage. She exactly the same thing when she split up with HB 1.0's father (i.e. ran to a Woman's Refuge), and he can't forgive her for doing it again with HB 3.0.

Particularly after she tried doing it with HB 2.0 & 3.0 last year, and was sent back by the Refuge after 5 days...

Anyhoo... Sucks to be her, and I am pleased that all of us except HB 3.0 (for the moment) are vaccinated against her madness.

I'm sort of okay with HB 3.0 being with her at the moment, because he basically never saw her from the age of 3 until Lockdown began. She is under close watch by the Refuge staff and Social Services, and is having to mind her P's & Q's and demonstrate to all that she understands she is, in fact, a mother.

We'll see how they get along...

Meanwhile...

The whole Marriage thing...

I've never been married.

I pretty much knew how things were always going to turn out with TPFKAHW, and I didn't want to be untangling from a marriage (or mortgage) with her. I have never got married because I never met anyone I felt like marrying.

Until I met my Queen. B-)

TPFKAHW introduced me to her in 2018. We didn't keep in touch, but we were in similar orbital patterns. And over the last few months, TPFKAHW had hosted a few women-only events here at home, and my Queen attended one of those.

And we both said, "Hi."

The following weekend, my Queen was back at my place, with some feeble excuse about splitting up with her partner and needing to talk to TPFKAHW about it. But the latter was a bit preoccupied, so I filled in for her...

Couple of weeks after that, and my Queen and I were having an "Off-Site" together, at a charming Spiritual Retreat in the East of England.

That's when I asked her to marry me, and she said yes.

Two weeks after that, I told TPFKAHW, and she fled.

Four days later, my Holy Queen moved in, and as of Monday, her name replaces TPFKAHW's on the lease.

HB 2.0 loves her being here, as does HB 1.0, and both have remarked on just how much happier I now am.

A little about my Holy Queen then:

She is a lawyer by education and qualification: she got her Masters in Law from the University in Dallas, and is eligible to sit the bar exams in the UK, US and South Africa, should she feel like it. She is currently working as a Business Analyst in the Public Sector, but her real passion is working with behaviorally-challenged children.

Born in Edinburgh, she is Nigerian with dual-nationality. Her two brothers both live and work in the U.S., and her mum lives in South Africa.

She is 10 years younger than me, has never been married, has no children of her own but wants to have some with me (spending a *LOT* of time on that Project at the moment..! B-) ).

She is the most intelligent person I've met, and in between the incredible sex, there are some incredible conversations.

So I'd be a fool not to marry her.

Now, the Plan for that is this:

Next year (2022), around the Summer Solstice (Wunder knows what date that is...), we will get married here at our home.

And pretty much everyone (except TPFKAHW, obvs.) is invited.

We're going for a Tribal Union theme, on account of her being from the Yaruba tribe, and me being Celtic (my Dad's actually Anglo-Saxon, but I lean to my Mum's tribe).

Which means that I and most of my guests will be expected to behave in accordance with the Celtic tradition of drinking and singing; and the Queen's guests will be providing all of the food, colour and glamour...

Something along those lines anyway. Likely to take place over the week, with a Festival vibe.

People coming in from all over the World.

[img]https://memegenerator.net/img/instances/80489103.jpg[img]

So...

There we go.

Reconfigured.