[quote=spootbat][color=green]Holyman, I'm not talking about how people become involved with specific members of the opposite sex. I am asking about how some sort of paradigm shift takes place in the minds of people as they age from puberty onward to make it seem "OK" or "normal" to themselves and families to pursue romantic endeavors.  For example, romantic endeavors with the opposite sex does not register with a 9 year old and has no role in their lives, but by 19 over 85% of people have had sex and thus made a decision that it is "OK" to do romantic behavior with the opposite sex.[/color][/quote]

Okay, I think I see where you're coming from Spoot.

Maybe it would help if we defined exactly what you mean by "Romantic Behaviour/Endeavours".

Most [b]*GIRLS*[/b] become passionate about "romantic behaviour" after they pass puberty; but most guys, at the same stage, are more passionate about "getting laid".

Any "romantic behaviour" exhibited by or observed in adolescent males, is usually an insincere but necessary step towards sexual gratification.

Guys want to experience having sex in their teens, usually because all their friends seem to be experiencing it. So it's either a question of keeping up with one's peers, or satisfying one's curiosity. And if that means either feigning or sincerely believing in a romantic ideal, that's what guys will do.

But see it for what it is: a desire to fulfil carnal instinct.

[quote=spootbat][color=green]For me, nobody ever told me to be involved with the opposite sex.  I fulfilled my obligations and activities since I was prepubescent and I have mostly the same mindset now.  Obviously I have matured and grown, but the idea of involving myself with the opposite sex hasn't just automatically inserted itself into my life.  It still feels kind of irrelevant and alien to me, and not necessary, and nobody has told me otherwise.  My mom occasionally makes references to me getting married to a "nice jewish girl" and she'll give all the collectors barbie dolls she's collected over the years to her, but that is in some indefinite future sometime after I become a rich doctor or something.  It's weird, I remember her asking me if I was gay or started liking girls when I was a kid almost every year, but she stopped that years ago.  My older sister acts like she's more socially adept than me, for example she has pictures of "hot guys" on her computer wallpaper.  But really, she's never had a boyfriend or anything either.  My mom always blames it on her being "fat", even though she isn't, and she constantly hounds my sister about not getting a boyfriend ever.  [/color][/quote]

There's a contradiction in what you've written above Spoot.

In the first instance, you say that "nobody ever told me to be involved with the opposite sex"; and then give a fairly typical explanation of the kind of pressure your mother has put on you to conform to a conventional relationship model.

And that's where such instruction or pressure comes from Spoot: your own family; usually your parents.

And that's only natural. It's the parents' job to self-replicate. They reproduced you physically, and as you grow, they will want you to also reproduce their cultural values and behaviours.

Given the very sad fact that your father is no longer alive, it is very understandable that your mother might want to see you and your sister established in the kind of secure relationship that your father's death denied her. But you understand that your mom places a greater importance on your becoming financially and professionally independent, only incidentally as a prerequisite to marrying a "nice Jewish girl".

And given the circumstances, that's a very healthy attitude that your mother has - that she's not pinning all her hopes and dreams for you, on your getting married - and one that you should be very thankful for.

It really isn't that your mother doesn't care anymore, quite the opposite by the sounds of things.

She might be a little prudish, but that's a generational thing: my mum's no different; and frankly, I'd be uncomfortable having frankly sexualised discussions with her anyway. That said, as a young, intelligent man, it's clear that you do want to be talking about sexual matters with someone. And I think you're doing exactly the right thing by talking it out with your friends here at =PBF=. You're going to get all angles covered in the responses you will receive; but it's always important to remember that when talking about sexual matters with your peers, you will be hearing more what they would [b]*LIKE*[/b] you to believe about their attitudes to sex, rather than their sincere feelings or genuine experiences - the trick is to try and figure out how to read between the lines. :)

A fully frank and open dialogue about sex is something you would probably be having with your father, if he were still around; since that's usually the way that it works: fathers talk about sexual matters with sons; and mothers with daughters. That such an opportunity has been denied to you however, does not mean that you are disadvantaged though. Candid father-son chats about sexual matters are ideal guides for a man's sexual awakening, but they really aren't all that common.

The really important thing to understand is that [b]*NO-ONE*[/b] really fully understands the, uh, "ins-and-outs" of sex; or can give you a comprehensive or absolute answer to the question you've asked.

We all like to appear confident and wise in sexual matters, but that's only because such an appearance is generally and aphrodisiac, and a lack of sexual confidence often a turn-off.

Nobody [b]*REALLY*[/b] understands the nature of Love and attraction.

And I think that's just as it should be. Because one of the greatest and most pleasurable things we can do as human beings, is explore the nature of Love and attraction, with each other.

It's an emotional experience and one where our feelings are our guide, not our minds.

I think the best advice I could give you is not to think too much about it, and certainly don't worry about it.

Whatever romantic and sexual experiences your future holds in store for you, will be there for you right when you're ready for them. You might find romance in a platonic, intellectual relationship; you might unleash a raging Sex-God aspect of your personality that you never knew existed; or you might just find that sex and romance isn't something that really fascinates you, and you'd rather spend your time focusing on other experiences in your Life.

But however it turns out for you, just don't worry about it: enjoy whatever aspect your sexual identity takes on, whenever that happens for you. Don't compare your experiences with your friend's testimonies; and don't worry about how well you may or may not be conforming to a cultural archetype.

The most important and romantic thing you can bring to [b]*ANY*[/b] relationship, is your Self. :)

Peace