In Reply To #36

In Reply To #31

I'd love to be able to do that sort of stuff and come home to my family.

Seems with my career choice though I'll have to be squeaky clean...at least on the outside, hehe.

Oh, I don't know...

I might get around, one of these days, to asking some people to try and help vote me into a position in public office - somewhere. If I do ask people to give me their vote, then I would hope they would only do so based on their understanding of who I am, and what I am about.

I wouldn't want to think that anyone voted for me because they were actually voting for an image of me, an image carefully shaped and structured so as not to cause offence, and to possibly look attractive to the odd floating voter.

If people I didn't know or hadn't asked personally to vote for me chose to vote for me, then I hope they would choose to do so on the basis of my seeming like a Real Person to them; someone who has lived a Real Life, a Real Life not wholly dissimilar to their own probably.

I wouldn't like to think that people were hoodwinked into thinking that I had no discernible personality at all, and that they thought that was somehow a good thing - worth voting for.

I don't think that in this day and age, Politics is really about personal morality anymore; I think it is about delivery and effectiveness: what is achieved; and how well it is achieved.

I think the next generation of voters (and possible future representatives) are too cosmopolitan to intrude on other peoples' moral and lifestyle choices. It is both rude and deeply un-cool to question or criticise another's personal choices.

And clearly, if a political candidate relies on social morality rather than individual personality to identify their self to potential voters: it is because they HAVE NO personality.

I think it is why political culture always lags a generation or two behind popular social culture.

Those young people who aspire to be politicians, aspire to be like the politicians of (to the young people) the previous generation. They feel obliged to live their lives the way that the previous generation does (or appears to do). It is why the students who join the mainstream political party societies at University, seem so middle-aged...

But the purpose of elected office in a popular Democracy is not to lead, but to Represent.

It isn't about setting moral standards, or being a good role-model; it is about being an effective and capable representative. You can not be a good representative of your generation and class, if you slope off every Wednesday night to the cloistered environs of a Young Conservatives or Democrat Society.

If you're going to be representing the Party Animals in the future, then you've got to understand what makes Party Animals tick. If you want to know the priorities of the Techno Geeks, then you've got to understand what floats their boat. And if you want to know what the priorities of the Socialites, socialise.

But, if you want to learn nothing about Life outside of Politics, and learn only how to represent other politicians, you know, I suppose politicians are a demographic of sorts...

You'll make a better politician, if you just stay True to your Self: whatever that means doing.

If there is a Leadership Position to be had in this Life, then it is only to tell others about and demonstrate, Being True to your Self.

I think it's pretty clear these days that the majority of Humans are utterly pissed off with the constant and none-too dazzling array of anodyne politicians with artificial personalities they are forced to choose from.

If our politicians are meant to be representative, I don't know who the fuck it is they are representing.

I don't know anyone outside of my workplace whose personality or lifestyle even resembles that of a professional politicians, let alone qualify to be represented by these golems.

I'm not saying that our politicians don't start off as humans, like you Spammers, 'cos I know they do. But the whole process of arriving at any public position of authority, is an entirely de-humanising one.

Insert inspired and intrepid idealist at one end of the process; and wait for the lobotomised android to march zombie-like out the other.

I'm just not sure how much longer The People are going to keep buying it...

So, if *I* were you Spam, I'd get out there and Experience as much variety of Life as you can possibly squeeze in to your pre-Parliamentary Life.

How else will you be able to represent others' lives, if you haven't Experienced your own? ;-)

Peace