America's Foreign and Economic interests remain the same, regardless of which party is in power.

Whilst America's cultural and moral identity requires it to champion "Freedom" and democratic government around the World, this requirement does not trump its own economic and military interests, which must always come first.

The same applies to any nation.

However, since the United States (currently) occupies the "World's #1" spot in economic and military matters, and consequently, in its ability to influence behaviour in other countries, it must necessarily draw the greatest criticism for the consequences of its Foreign Policies. If and when China becomes "World's #1", it too will have to face the sternest criticism of the attempts it makes to "Police the World".

It comes with the territory.

The dilemma that has faced the United States since it became World's #1, has been balancing its strategic interests with its stated place as "Champion of Freedom and Democracy". Perhaps this isn't an issue that China will have to worry about...

The thing about strong-arm dictators in the Arab World, is that on balance, the United States prefers them to the alternative: religious-socialist theocracies.

Nowhere is this more evident than in Iran.

Whilst America leads the World in criticising Iran's appalling (and theocratic) human rights record, it hope the World will forget that what preceded Iran's Islamic Theocracy was the U.S. installed and maintained, and at least equally brutal dictatorship of the Shah of Iran.

Same thing with Saddam Hussein: he was installed by a CIA-backed coup, then fully and continually backed by the U.S. right up until he went "rogue", when he attacked Kuwait. The U.S. (and Israel) preferred a strong-arm, secular, Right Wing military dictator in Iraq, not least of all because he followed orders and attacked Iran when he was told to.

America has a similar history with Right Wing military dictators in Central and South America.

The problem for the U.S. in the Arab World, is that once a military dictator has established himself, he bans all other opposition parties, particularly all the secular, liberal, intellectual opposition. But what the dictator cannot do is ban Islam.

So, political opposition to the dictator moves into the mosques and the madrassas; since these are the only places that can provide any insulation from the dictator's security apparatus.

And it is this that creates the sense that there are only *TWO* options: Military Dictator; or Militant Islamism.

I visited Egypt in 1998, travelling alone, and was taken under the wing of an Egyptian who worked in the hotel I stayed at in Luxor. He introduced me to the non-tourist aspect of Egypt, including a visit to a wedding party and a night spent on the roof of his uncle's apartment, smoking the hashish I had smuggled into Egypt.

What I learned was that the bulk of Egyptians are neither rabidly Islamic nor ferociously Right Wing. Rather, like most of us, they're just trying to get by on a day-to-day basis, balancing survival with a bit of enjoyment and opportunity.

Egyptians despise the incumbent power as much as any of us in the West. But that doesn't mean that they admire or support the only viable alternative. Just that the incumbent is so despicable, they'll take any alternative to be rid of the military dictatorship.

As for what precipitated this apparent wave of revolt sweeping through the Arab World: I would say that it has far less to do with the ministrations of the previous or current U.S. Presidential Administration; and much more to do with the increasingly prevalent access to the Internet and Social Media in the Arab World.

Censorship and ideological uniformity is one of the cornerstones of any dictatorship: military or theocratic.

It was [i]Perestroika[/i] or "openness" that brought the Soviet Union crashing down; and I think that perhaps انفتاح may do the same for the Arab World.

[face_peace]