In order to protect a population (rather than specific individuals) against Covid-19, a majority of citizens will need to consent to being vaccinated. However, [url=https://uk.reuters.com/article/uk-health-coronavirus-vaccine-hesitancy/vaccine-hesitancy-may-undermine-fight-against-covid-19-uk-report-says-idUKKBN27Q009]36 percent of people in the UK and 51 percent in the US reporting being either uncertain or unlikely to agree to be vaccinated against this coronavirus.[/url]

To quote M.D. in this week's issue of "Private Eye":

[quote]The world would be less populated and less travelled without the vaccines that prevent cholera, diphtheria, hepatitis, Japanese encephalitis, measles, meningitis, mumps, pertussis, pneumonia, polio, rabies, rotavirus, rubella, tetanus, tuberculosis, typhoid, varicella, yellow fever, ano-genital cancer and warts. The fact that only one infectious disease has been eliminated (smallpox) shows how hard it is to defeat microbes.[/quote]

Those of us who think and behave rationally, must therefore be rationally concerned by the Rise of Irrationalism, at this particular moment in Human History.

We have been here before, lest we forget. It wasn't long ago that an irrational fear of people of Jewish heritage was whipped up by a power-seeking cabal and led to one of Humanity's greatest crimes against itself.

Human Progress (and survival) has been a constant struggle against irrationality and the irrational.

The "Irrational" are those who elevate belief, gut-instinct, compulsive cynicism and numerous other dispositions above Reason and Evidence.

This is not to diminish or demean instinct or belief. They are the seeds from which intuition grows, and intuition can be a very effective tool to guide one's own Life.

But intuition is not a useful guide for Collective Existence.

It isn't easily transferred or transposed; it doesn't scale well; and it requires a certain force of character to use it as a basis for Social Movement.

Intuition is only really effective when it is harnessed by humility. There is a big difference between "I am always right!" and "I am often right."

I always look to my intuition first; but I also always run my intuitive responses through the "Spell-checkers" of Experience and Reason before acting upon or "Going Public" with them.

I have wasted too much of my Life's Time clearing up the messes I have created for myself, where I have just let my intuitive reactions dictate my behaviour.

Anglophones can certainly identify these characteristics as being epitomised by (some, though by no means all) Americans - not least of all the current President-Reject, Donald Trump. But it is an attitude that pervades all human societies. All around the World, and throughout all of Human History.

Because of Fear.

Fear of the unknown. Fear of the unknowable. Fear of "the Other". Fear for one's own survival. Fear of the uncertainties of Existence. Fear of shame, of embarrassment, of being excluded from the societies we depend on. Fear of being caught out. Fear of being judged. Fear of being found lacking or wanting. Fear of being diminished in our own, our Society's and/or our God's eyes.

Fear of being wrong.

Our hindbrains are hard-wired by millions of years of Evolution to make "Fight-or-Flight" decisions without hesitation. The most basic function of our cerebellum has been designed to manage Life-or-Death situations. But now that the dangers of being mauled by a sabre-toothed tiger are significantly lower than our DNA remembers, we have repurposed that binary instinct to make sense of the far more widespread intellectual challenges we face in the Modern World.

Political Science has both identified and exacerbated this condition.

"Divide and Conquer" has been the primary strategy employed by all men that seek power and dominion over others. And in our 21st Century World, that means utilising irreconcilable, mutually-exclusive, zero-sum policy decisions to force the mass of peoples to choose one side of a debate or another.

"You are either with us, or against us.", to quote a primate that recently occupied high office.

The only thing worse than holding the wrong conviction, is having no conviction at all. At least if you hold the opposing conviction, as wrong as you are, you provide good sport.

Climate Change, abortion, gun rights, immigration, ethnicity, gender issues, religiosity, militarism, single-payer healthcare...

The List is endless.

The relentless focus on these issues is not an attempt to resolve them, but to keep the mass of people arguing about them, whilst power-elites go about their business of building material bulwarks against their own existential fears.

And for the masses, a forced choice: are you for, or against? Do you believe, or not believe? Will you stand and fight for what you believe? Will you defend what your instinct tells you to be Right?

At first presentation, we have to make a split-second choice. And once we make that choice, never reversing it is a matter of dogma, of culture, of indoctrination.

Because actually, the thing that is worse than holding the wrong conviction and not holding a conviction at all...

...Is changing our conviction.

Over the years, religious fundamentalism has perfected highly effective intellectual mechanisms for keep the Faithful on the Path of Righteousness.

In Fundamentalist Christianity, for example, the mere sense that one's Faith is being shaken, is proof positive that the Devil is tempting you to stray. The more reasonable, rational and persuasive a non-believer's arguments about the bankruptcy and corruption of your beliefs: the greater the evidence that Satan is trying to steal you away from God.

In politics, the greater the evidence of the iniquities of your own politics, the greater the proof that your opponents are just trying to distract from their own short-comings.

In our day-to-day dialogue with those who prioritise reactionary instinct over reasonable evidence, we become victims of a "Rope-a-Dope" strategy.

It requires little effort for the Irrational and Unreasonable to remain irrational and unreasonable. It requires tremendous effort and patience for the Rational and Reasonable to keep exposing the logical and evidential flaws in irrational and unreasonable positions.

The ultimate fall-back for the Irrational and Unreasonable is: "I see no evidence of this in my own experience, therefore you are wrong."

Climate-change deniers look out their windows and see no apparent change in their Environment: therefore, Climate Change is a hoax.

Unhealthy and unfit people who are not dying from a heart-attack or diabetes at that particular moment, dismiss the idea that they should improve their diets and do some exercise. Cigarette smokers not currently dependent on medical technology to stop them dying from emphysema, doubt the medical evidence that smoking damages their health. Drivers who haven't had a serious car-crash doubt the benefits of speed-limits and seat-belts.

Someone who hasn't been infected with Covid-19 and doesn't know anyone who has died from it, can think that the whole "Pandemic" thing has been blown up out of all proportion.

People who stand on flat ground, can (and do) dispute that the Planet Earth is an oblate spheroid.

And no amount of reasoned argument will disabuse them. In fact, it tends to reinforce their beliefs.

So eventually, the reasonable and the rational will give up trying to persuade them to see things differently.

And to the unreasonable and the irrational: that counts as a victory.

Their instincts have been proved right, because by their own measure, they have not been proved wrong.

What on Earth are we to do about this?

Stephen Winspear lives on the same Planet as everyone else. He can be reached at stephen@1person.com