In Reply To #88

To be honest, I don't know if I have found the truth or not. I try to read and learn as much as I can so that I can find the best possible explanation of things but at this point I am still not completely sure. I figure the best I can do is just to keep an open mind and try to find an answer that makes the most sense. If I have in fact already found the truth though, well then we live in a very sad and fucked up world. I wish you the best as well and i'd just like to apologize if I flew off the handle at any point. Its just that, when you're constantly being attacked for your views, well you tend to get a little defensive.

That's more or less the desired effect old bean. :)

If you think about one of the original points in this thread, it was about how Giuliani tried to twist what Paul had said, and then attack him with that twisted interpretation. This isn't to criticise or single out Giuliani, it happens in most political debates, as you just found out.

Being put on the defensive means you've got to do all the work. And because you are doing all the work, it is only really you that can slip up. Slip ups are jumped on by your opponent(s), as a lazy way of dismissing your credibility.

Not that you would necessarily pounce on your opponents' slip-ups with as much glee as they are waiting to leap on your's. :)

For the closed of mind, every debate and every dialogue, is a competition to establish a superiority of one sort or another. As with Giuliani, there is an unconscious motivational force that directly influences conscious behaviour. It is all but impossible to establish a non-competitive - i.e. co-operative - dialogue with individuals who have closed their mind to alternative possibilities about the subject being discussed.

It's a bit like the way that the Church embeds the idea of The Devil in churchgoers' consciousnesses. Any attempt to suggest a more benign theory of the meaning of "The Devil", or diminish the threat he poses with his Force of Evil, is taken as an attempt by The Devil to lead them astray.

Attempts to diminish the, uh, "Evilitude" of the enemy - such as attempting to understand the enemy's motives - are wilfully misinterpreted as attempts to lessen or criticise the moral outrage expressed by the nation-goer. Such attempts are demonised as "sympathy for the enemy", and lodged firmly in the patriotic nation-goer's minds as just as evil as the Evilitude itself.

Subsequent attempts to reduce the influence of the irrational notion of "Evil" on the dialogue are firmly and automatically dismissed. More effective or subtle attempts to bring rationality to the debate, are seen as signs of the enemy's/Evil's further duplicity and insidiousness. The more directly a fact or point challenges the "Good v. Evil" orthodoxy, the more it is seen as evidence of the effectiveness of the "Evil" Enemy.

In other words: evidence that he is wrong, is perceived and responded to as though it were evidence he were right.

There are really no practical differences between worship of a deity or country; the practice of worship is the common element; so patriotic beliefs influence political beliefs, through the ideology of Nationalism. Belief and Faith are marvellous qualities to possess; but when Belief or Faith in Another displaces Faith in one's Self (Self-Belief) we become very exposed to manipulation.

It is, after all, the mechanism used to get people our age to strap bombs to their chests and blow themselves up in crowded places.

And, of course, it is the mechanism that is used to get other people our age to blindly follow and support "Leaders" of extremely dubious provenance, on patently disastrous military and economic adventures. The only way for an individual to psychologically justify such a dogmatic adherence to socially reprehensible and increasingly unacceptable Leadership, is for that individual to close their mind.

The only thing wrong with Religion, is that it is out of date.

The only thing wrong with Religionists, is that they desire us to live a lifestyle that is also out of date.

The only thing wrong with Government, is that it is also out of date.

And the only thing wrong with Governors, Prime Ministers and Presidents, is that they are also out of date.

Both institutions terrified of becoming irrelevant; both relying on blind Faith to survive.

It isn't that Humanity has become less Spiritual, though the choice to do so remains ever on "Special Offer". But our Spirituality has diversified, it has become more individualised, more personalised. Anyone with half-a-brain has figured out that One-Size-Fits-All Religion never can work.

And it isn't that Society has become less political - though again, the provocation to become so is relentlessly suggested and promoted by the torrid activities of politicians.

Society has just acquired a much broader definition, is all.

"Society" now means: The Whole World and Everyone in It.

It is impossible for one "set" of human beings to completely disengage from any other.

It used to be possible geographically: some of the most disengaged people colonised North America. But now, it isn't possible geographically, commercially, politically, culturally or socially. The only way that one "set" of human beings can completely disengage from another "set" of human beings, is to destroy that other "set" entirely.

Now, aside from the fact that we try collectively - though not always successfully - to ensure that sort of thing doesn't happen; we should have realised by now that deliberately removing all trace in our lives of another "set" of human beings doesn't work.

So we really should stop trying to do it; no matter how villainous the faces on those "Wanted: Dead or Alive" posters look to us.

Killing people you don't like, only encourages them to annoy you more.

History teaches us that virtually all attempts to persecute an ideological "set" of human beings, end up preserving that ideology beyond all expectation, and often, out of proportion to the number of its adherents.

Now, we've learned that attempts by national leaders to vilify and demonise other national - and these days, extra-national - leaders, in order to shore up their own credibility, always ends in disaster. It's one set of anachronistic idiots squaring off against another; each determined to demonstrate their invincibility.

The Truth is that both sets of idiots are now redundant in our Society.

We need no more square-off against an aggressive and provocative Iran, than we would square-off to our local gang leader. Which doesn't mean we wouldn't or couldn't stand our ground if the gang - Iranian or Youth - squared up to us; usually a call to the parents - economic/political or biological - sorts everything out.

We certainly don't go looking for trouble in our local neighbourhoods. (That's the Royal "We" btw, can't vouch for everyone here... :)) In short, we don't act like the violent gangs in our midst. As abiders of the Law (well, mostly), we expect and in most cases can rely on the support of Law Enforcement Officials. That's not a perfect system, but Law and Order is the best we've got so far...

So, clearly, the "Leaders" in our midst, whether they are wearing a turban or a flight-suit, are stuck in some kind of social time-warp. Where they still believe that illegal violence as a reaction to illegal violence still holds any kind of geo-political or sociological validity; and / or gives them any relevance to Modern Society.

Inter-...Nationalist politics these days is run like a Global sport, with league tables, relentless numbers of competitive events, and all manner of technical scrutiny.

I believe that the Premier League or Formula One of Inter-Nationalist Teams is playing its Finals in Germany at the moment... To be honest, it's not that great a spectator sport these days. No-one overtakes and there are rarely any serious injuries or good crashes.

But it is certainly a strong supporter sport. And like most sports supporters, Nationalist Team supporters are absolutely prepared to suspend rational thought, in order to maintain their support.

Anyhoo, as with the vast network of properties devoted to the worship of an intractable and apparently existentially disinterested God; putting on such grand political circus, costs a fucking mint. Sooner or later, the bills have to be paid. And this requires large quantities of cash to be harvested from those wishing to join in the Worship.

And whether that harvest of cash is collected by collection plate or tax return, it requires the donors to close their minds utterly to the way that harvest is disastrously squandered, by such epic idiots.

It is fascinating to observe how the supporters of these epic idiots - be they religious or political idiots - contort their minds to ensure they can never be opened. The mechanism is the same whether it is "the Devil" or "a Liberal" trying to lead them off the straight and narrow.

There's a parallel with your consideration of a "9/11 Conspiracy" DirtySock.

You work backwards from the conclusion.

If you start from the conclusion that there was a far more sinister conspiracy behind 9/11, hatched closer to home than the conspiracy "The Commission" found; then chances are, you're only going to come across evidence that leans towards (or is it away from..?) that conclusion. Equally, if you start from the conclusion that the "The 9/11 Commission" established and fixed the final and absolute Truth, then it is also unlikely you will ever (bother to) discover evidence to contradict that conclusion.

With an Open Mind, you can start and finish wherever you like, nothing is fixed. You can come and go as you please. You can form temporary conclusions, or "placeholder conclusions", to provide temporary closure on a subject. If the subject under discussion happens to be a "Live" subject; then all the more reason to postpone final conclusion, and keep the mind open. Whatever, at no point are you pinning any conclusions as finished and closed.

Not in public, leastways. :)

Keeping your mind open helps keep it agile. Keeps you able to cross-reference, infer, intuit and reason over multiple information streams; to follow the trail to the conclusion, wherever that conclusion is.

The alternative is never being able to set foot off the path lit by the conclusion you started with. :)

Religious supporters will tell you that their God exists, exactly as described in books written centuries and millennia ago. And, they'll tell you that if you don't believe that, you're fucked, one way or another.

And political supporters will tell you that their particular and equally-aged ideology is also the only One True Faith.

And if you don't believe that, then you'd better be prepared to move home, or fight.

Charming, to the Last.

Fortunately, both groups are dwindling minorities in our new Global Society; both usually distinguishing themselves by their reprehensible activities, and incomprehensible justifications.

Their facility to delude themselves is diminishing, much less their ability to delude anyone else outside of their cults.

They are, as the French say, passé.

We should enjoy them now as a species, before they are ever lost to us. :)

Peace