In Reply To #45

In Reply To #44

Next came the question, had the US invited the attacks. "I'm suggesting that we listen to the people who attacked us and the reason they did it, and they are delighted that we're over there because Osama bin Laden has said, 'I am glad you're over on our sand because we can target you so much easier.'"

Once again, Ron Paul is demanding that we let the extremists speak for the entire Muslim/Arab world.  If Ron Paul is right, and Al Qaeda really speaks for 1.2 billion Muslims, then we are in a world of trouble.

How the fuck did you get that out of the above?

Ron Paul says: "I'm suggesting that we listen to the people who attacked us and the reason they did it."

You, evidently, consider that unreasonable.

And, with your usual lack of reason, mutate it into Ron Paul saying that Al Qaeda "really speaks for 1.2 billion Muslims".

Which he didn't.

And isn't.

Personally, I don't find any of Bin Laden or Al Qaeda's  arguments or worldview rational, consistent, or logical.

I am sure there are a few people on this forum willing to rhetorically defend Al Qaeda's view point against the big bad Americans.  Who will it be?

I don't think ANYONE on this forum will defend Al Qaeda, their actions or their point of view.

And Foota, you've got to ask yourself why you're so ridiculously disingenuous as to suggest they might.

The answer should cut to the heart of your issues around here.

There's a difference between UNDERSTANDING and JUSTIFYING.

It pleases you, and justifies your disposition around here, to convert every disagreement or opposition to Bush Administration policies, into support for terrorism and Arab / Muslim extremism.

But this conversion can only survive in your own mind Foota. As soon as you try to publicly twist criticisms of the Bush Administration and attempts to understand the motivation of those attacking the United States and Western Civilisation in general, into fervent support for terrorism and anti-Americanism...

Well, you come off sounding like a congenital idiot who lacks basic comprehension skills.

Tell me Foota, why would you NOT want to try and understand the motives of someone who has attacked you and threatens to do so again?

Peace