[quote=Slacks post_id=8868 time=1693093262 user_id=68][color=#008000]But don't England always look a bit shit before a major tournament before doing better than expected?[/color][/quote]

Umm, not so much. I think that's more applicable to the English soccer team.

England made it to the quarter-finals in the first Rugby World Cup in 1987. Being the first World Cup, and being hosted in Australia and New Zealand, nobody really knew what to expect, other than that the All Blacks would almost certainly win it (they did).

Going into the 1991 World Cup, England were expected to do well because the team was in good shape and they had home advantage ('cos the UK was hosting). But Australia were just too good on the day of the Final, so England were runners-up in that championship.

1995 was the last year that [url=https://rugbydome.com/when-did-rugby-go-professional-in-england-its-complicated/]England fielded an amateur team[/url], and Will Carling and his team-mates were expected to do rather well. They squeaked a victory over Australia in their Quarter-Final, thanks to an epic drop-goal by Rob Andrew in the closing minutes. Unfortunately they then went on to face the All Blacks in the semi-final, and that year New Zealand had a new weapon in the shape of Jonah Lomu.

[media]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MQNUrtbtRac[/media]

1999 saw the first properly professional England Ruby team competing, and Wales were the hosts. Sadly, England were in the same pool as New Zealand (who were still armed with Jonah Lomu). England didn't get completely mullered by NZ in their pool match (England 16 - New Zealand 30) and made it through to a Quarter Final were they came up against the then current World Champions, South Africa. They lost that match with 21 points to RSA's 44.

Then it was the 2003 RWC, hosted in Australia. England were being managed by Clive Woodward, and they had a useful player called Johnny Wilkinson at Fly-Half. England smashed South Africa 25-6 in their pool match, beat Samoa 35-22, and steam-rollered Uruguay 111-13.

[media] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-AVrs8rEjEs[/media]

England then beat Wales handily in their Quarter-Final, and flattened France 24-7 in the Semi-Final.

And we all know what happened in England's match against Australia (the hosts) in the Final, thanks to a stunning drop-goal from Johnny Wilkinson in extra time.

The 2007 RWC was hosted in France, and England got drawn in the same pool as Tonga, Samoa, the United States and... South Africa. England beat the U.S. and the Pacific Islanders, but were demolished 36-0 by the Springboks. They squeaked a victory over Australia in their Quarter-Final, thanks exclusively to Johnny Wilkinson successfully kicking 4 out of 7 penalties - the Wallabies scored a try that they converted, and just one penalty. England's semi-final was then against France, the host nation. England had beaten France in the Five Nations that year, but Les Bleus had home advantage, so hopes weren't high. But thanks again to the boot of Johnny Wilkinson, England won 14-9.

There wasn't then much optimism that England could win the Final against South Africa, because of the demolition they had received from the Springboks in their Pool Match. It was closer than everyone thought it might be though, with the game decided on penalty kicks alone, with the Springboks successfully kicking 5 to England's 2, to win 15-6.

England sent a decent enough team to New Zealand in 2011 (Wilkinson and a still substantial contingent of the 2003 RWC winning team were still on England's roster), but everyone assumed the All Blacks would be adding Home Advantage to the fact that they are the consistently greatest team in Rugby Union. England lost to France in the Quarter Final, and whilst the All Blacks were victorious over France in the Final, it was only by a single point.

2015, and England was the Host Nation again. But the national squad was missing Johnny Wilkinson, Martin Johnson and Clive Woodward. There was a sense that Home Advantage might make up for the lack of talismanic players, and Eddie Jones was quite highly-regarded as the team manager. Unfortunately England lost to Wales (25-28) and Australia (13-33) in the Pool Stage, so they didn't even make it to the Quarter Finals.

The 2019 RWC was in Japan, and England were expected to do quite well as Owen Farrell and George Ford were now emerging as key play-makers. England were in the same pool as France, which was the only game that might have been a challenge, but that match was cancelled due to a typhoon and declared a no-score draw. This meant England won the pool on total goals accumulated in the Pool matches they had managed to play.

When England beat Australia 40-16 in the Quarter-Final, there was a sense that they might go all the way, but they had to face the All Blacks in the Semi-Final... But no worries: England beat the All Blacks 19-7 in that match.

And guess who England then had to face in the Final..? Their RWC Nemesis: South Africa.

England did play well, but all 12 of their points came from Owen Farrell kicking penalties. South Africa scored 2 tries that they converted, and 6 fucking penalties. So England once again were Runners-Up.

And that brings us to England's 2023 Rugby World Cup, which starts in a couple of weeks...

Their first match is against Argentina... The Argies are currently ranked 7th in World Rankings, with England just about clinging onto their 6th rank.

Without Owen Farrell and Billy Vunipola available for that match, due to suspensions following red cards in these warm-up games I've been following, it's hard to see England winning that match. They should/could possibly beat Japan and Chile, but they've also got to beat Samoa if they want to make it to a Quarter-Final match. It's difficult to use the result of Samoa's match against Ireland as an indicator of England's chances, 'cos Ireland are currently the best team in the world (ranked #1), but comparing Samoa's performance yesterday with England's performance against Fiji, I think the Samoans may well thwart this England team's attempts to make it to the Quarter-Finals.

Rugby Union is a different type of game to Association Football (and Rugby League, come to that). It is so heavily dependent on team dynamics, particularly team cohesion. Soccer teams can be successful with just one or two stellar players, but in Rugby Union, the team as a whole has to function effectively. And I really haven't seen any signs of that in England's recent games.

Inevitably, the blame is going to fall on Steve Borthwick, England's current head coach. He was a reasonable enough player in his time, but his spell as England Team Captain (2008-2009) was less than stellar. His predecessor, Eddie Jones, was very popular with players and fans alike, and is a tough act to follow. Borthwick has only been England's Head Coach since just before last Christmas (December 2022), and he doesn't seem to have properly established himself yet. He is a bit unlucky to be taking England to a World Cup with less than a year's tenure as Head Coach, and I suspect he may not get much of a chance after this World Cup to spend any more time in that position.

But it won't be all his fault. England lack any real play-makers, apart from Owen Farrell, Billy Vunipola and George Ford. The first two of those are currently suspended, and Ford is getting a bit long-in-the-tooth these days.

If the other teams that England are going to compete with for this World Cup were not playing so well, maybe England would have a chance to crawl into the knockout stages... But I don't see it.

Ireland are playing really, really well at the moment, and are my pick for the eventual winners. France (the hosts) and (obviously) New Zealand are expected to do very well also. They will play the first match of the 2023 RWC a week on Friday, as they are in the same pool. Italy, Uruguay and Namibia are the other three teams in that pool, so France and NZ are definitely both going through to the Quarter-Finals. And who knows, maybe they will meet again in the Final.

So...

Does that answer your enquiry Slacks?