Hey Dylan,

Good to hear from you. :)

Sorry to hear about your woes though...

First thing I have to say is that yes, I certainly went through similar, about when I was your age too.

Thing is, I didn't have anyone around me who could tell me all the pitfalls and traps to watch out for. My dad tried his best, bless him, but his experiences of going through the same sorts of things in post-War Britain, didn't really have an awful lot of relevance to my Emotional awakenings in the 1980's...

Or so I thought.

Had I ignored his practical tips about situation and circumstance, and just listened to his Emotional wisdom, things might have been a bit less painful. But I guess I can blame him for not making himself clearer (he gets a lot of points for trying though :)).

I suppose the first thing to say is that you don't and can't turn Love on and off like some kind of consumer electronics device.

There's that wonderful moment when you first meet someone that you know you're going to spend a lot of time, having a lot of fun with. You can call it "Love at First Sight", because that's what it is.

You might also believe or hope that it's going to "Last Forever!"; and it will... But it may not "Last Forever!" in the same way that it feels at the beginning.

No, Love is alive with possibility, and it really isn't suited to being constrained or directed. Love has a really annoying tendency to [b]*NOT*[/b] do what you want it to do.

Sometimes, Love will change from that "[b]*ISN'T*[/b] this lovely!" feeling, to a "[b]*WASN'T*[/b] that lovely?" memory.

And that's a real bitch to handle, until you get used to it...

My point being that you will always Love Tanya, but it will be a different kind of Love to the living, breathing, [b]*ACTIVE*[/b] Love that you once shared. Rather, it will become a fond memory, one that you look back upon with happiness, and recognise as the foundation for your "Further Adventures in Love".

Right now, you're both on the down-slope of the active experience of your Shared Love. There is bitterness, recrimination, even dare I say, a bit of vindictiveness. You both shared something wonderful, and now it's not [b]*AS*[/b] wonderful, you'll both be looking to blame the other, at some level anyway.

It might seem a bit difficult to comprehend now, but what you're both going through, is just as much a part of Love's Game, as all the breathless excitement and anticipation you experienced when that Love first began its Dance between you.

You're a Buddhist Dylan; you understand the cyclical nature of Existence; that Life is Cycles within Cycles within Cycles. And it is all of it, Love incarnate.

You didn't plan for, control or regulate the Beginnings of your Love with Tanya; it really isn't a good idea to try and do it for the Endings - and certainly not if you are holding the idea that there might be a New Beginning, somewhere down the line.

There could well be a New Beginning for you and Tanya, somewhere down the road. But if it happens, it's got to be allowed to happen as freely as it was allowed to the first time around.

Try to salvage, mitigate, insulate or deny the flip side of your Love that you are now Experiencing, and there's a very good chance that you'll end up putting the kibosh on any future possibilities.

All of which leads to the only solid piece of advice I would offer you now, for this situation as for any:

Just Be With It.

That's the only Strategy worth using, for Love [b]*AND*[/b] Life (same things really...).

You know what the Fat Man said: the root of suffering is desire.

If you desire a different Experience to the one that Life is giving you right now, with Tanya, you're only going to make Life difficult for yourself. Accept the downside of this Cycle of Love you are on with her, just as you accepted the upside, and who knows, maybe you won't completely negate any chances of beginning a new Cycle with her.

Now, on the tactical front, I have this to say:

It's been a long time since I ever allowed any of my friends to mediate in any of my Love affairs. But I remember quite clearly how nothing good ever came of letting that happen.

Remember when you and Tanya first got together? You were so wrapped up in each other, that the Rest of the World could have cheerfully winked out Existence, for all the two of you cared.

But right now, what remains of your Emotional connection, is being channelled through intermediaries. You're both of you paying any attention at all, to what others have to say about you (to each other). And [b]*NO*[/b] good can come of that!

You're a bright young thing, and doubtless so too is Tanya. And that means that you're going to have a lot of your friends trying to get a taste of that, by getting in between the two of you.

And it's not because your friends don't Love you, respectively; it's that they're only likely to say the things that they think you want to hear. Specifically, that means that if they see either of you looking or hear you sounding a bit down, they'll try to perk up your spirits by telling you why you're "Well shot of him/her!".

And before you know it, you've got Tanya hearing all sorts of defamatory things about you; and vice versa.

The only solution is to cut-out the middle-girls-and-boys: go straight to Source!

That is, if either of you is still interested in salvaging something positive from your relationship.

Now remember, as cyclical as Life is, there's no going back. If either or both of you imagines that you can restore your Love to its former glory, you're both mistaken. You've both grown since then, partly as a result of being with each other; so whatever else the Future may have in store for the two of you together, it won't be like anything you had in the Past.

You can safely ignore whatever it is she may have heard about you, or of you. Whether that's about you personally, or about what you may or may not have said about her. And vice versa.

Deal only with what you can say directly to one another, and ignore anything else you might pick-up on the Jungle Grapevine.

Now, like I said, I've given you the only advice I'm ever going to give you anything: Just Be With It.

But I can also give you your options. What I wrote above is one option. Another option would be to put your relationship with Tanya behind you, and move on to your next Relationship.

You'll only get to that next Relationship when you open yourself up fully to receive it; and you will be able to do that, sooner or later; but only once you've let the Cycle of Love you Experienced with Tanya, complete its Circle.

I remember my dad using platitudes like "Plenty more fish in the sea" etc., and naturally enough, I dismissed such ramblings out of hand. But looking back, I think what he meant to say was this:

It isn't the Person that you are trying to hang onto; it is the Feelings of Love you had for that person that you don't want to let go of. But actually, you can, will and [b]*MUST*[/b] Experience those feelings again, almost certainly with someone else, but always, always, always, with your Self as well.

And that's what really counts.

But whatever else, don't forget that the Feelings you are Experiencing now, about Tanya, are just as much a part of your Love for her, as those giddy, euphoric Feelings you had in the first instance.

Don't be in any hurry to get over or past those feelings: 'cos it's the difficult and challenging feelings that [b]*REALLY*[/b] help us to grow. :)

Good luck, and Enjoy the Ride!

Namasté

Stephen