Yeah, yeah, yeah: enough about you already; let's talk about me for a bit!

The first thing you should know about me, is that I only very rarely THINK about what it is I'm going to write, before I start writing it. Most of the Time - like now - I just start typing, and see what comes out.

What I DO think very carefully about, and consider deeply, is the person or people who are going to be reading what I'm writing. I think about what they're feeling, what they're likely to feel, and what they're capable of feeling.

Because it is ALL about Emotion Sanders, ALL about Feeling, and above all, it is ALL about Love.

Now I've started with that little exposition, because I don't know exactly how long what I am about to write is going to be. And before you go on reading what I've written here (you have the advantage over me, in knowing EXACTLY how much I eventually wrote! :)), I'd like you just to take a moment to get yourself settled, get yourself into as comfortable a position as you can, and try - for the moment - to just try and find a little space of Peace within yourself.

You'll know better how to do that - if you can do it right now - than I, so I won't bother telling you to light incense, or put whale-song music on or anything. You could try doing some measured breathing, while looking out the window - that can sometimes help promote inner balance, but it depends how you're feeling at this exact moment whether it will or not.

As you read down, you'll occasionally notice these:

...

When you see those dots, stop reading for a moment, and have a think about what I've just written. See how the words and ideas I just expressed fit for you - if they fit at all. Some will, some won't; don't worry about which is which. Embrace anything that seems to fit; set aside anything that doesn't.

Just don't speed-scan like you would a normal forum post: this is a LIVING and LOVING message, which you're not required to respond to me about; you're only supposed to feel the response you have to the ideas I'm expressing.

If you DO want to put some music on while you read this, might I suggest you put on whatever music it is that makes you FEEL something strong. I'm currently obsessed by a song sung by a contestant on American Idol. Her name is Lakisha, and she took Jon Bon Jovi's song "This Is Not A Love Song", and made it soar.

Here it is:  http://www.1person.com/audio/not-a-love-song.mp3

Download it...

...

...And let's both have a listen to it together now (tissues on standby!).

"I should have seen it coming when the roses died Should have seen the end of summer in your eyes I should have listened when you said good night You really meant good bye.

Baby, ain't it funny, how we never ever learn to fall You're really on your knees, when you think you're standing tall But only fools are "know-it-alls", and I played that fool for you. I cried and I cried, there were nights that I died for you baby I tried and I tried to deny: your love drove me crazy, baby If the love that I got for you is gone If the river I cried ain't that long Then I'm wrong, yeah I'm wrong, this ain't a love song If the pain that I'm feeling so strong Is the reason I'm holding on Then I'm wrong, yeah I'm wrong: this ain't a love song

This ain't a Love song.

 If the pain that I'm feeling so strong Is the reason I'm holding on Then I'm wrong, yeah I'm wrong - this ain't a love song If I'm wrong, yeah I'm wrong...

This ain't a love song."

...

There, how d'ya like THEM apples?

...

See, that's what Love is MEANT to feel like.

There's absolutely NOTHING wrong with what you are going through right now; absolutely NOTHING wrong with what you are feeling:

There is NOTHING wrong with Love - ESPECIALLY when it FEELS so wrong.

...

Let us start at the Beginning shall we.

You were born of Love, and you were born into Love.

Your parents conceived you in the most Divinely Perfect Moment of Love; and when you were born, you brought with you that Divine Love, Love made flesh in your being.

I'm not bigging you up here: it's the same for all of us you know - in the Beginning.

Sadly, it isn't always the same for all of us, by the End.

The difference is: how we each respond to what happens to us, in the Middle.

...

Let's get down to cases shall we?

I'm afraid to say, that you are ALL ON YOUR OWN here old bean.

No-one can take away from you, what you're feeling right now: not Tanya; not your Father; not even *I*.

But that's okay, because really, you wouldn't want us to take away what you're feeling right now.

That might sound a bit cruel, but if you think REAL hard and REAL honestly about the situation you are in right now, you have to acknowledge that it is a situation you've created all by yourself. In other words - and believe it or not - it is a situation that you WANTED to find yourself in.

I don't mean that you wanted to torture yourself Emotionally - well not really anyway; and I ABSOLUTELY don't mean that you wanted to hurt Tanya, or put her through what she is undoubtedly going through right now. If there was anyway you could have brought yourself to the Experience you are now having, without hurting Tanya, you absolutely would have done it that way.

Unfortunately for you and Tanya, there IS no other way you could have brought yourself to this vital stage in your Emotional Evolution, this stage in the growth of your Love.

But you know, that makes it really okay; there really is NOTHING wrong with what you are feeling, what Tanya is feeling, and the decisions and choices you made to bring yourself to this point in your Life.

You Love Tanya; and Tanya Loves You.

And that's all you really need to think about: the rest is just about feeling what you are feeling.

Which is that Love.

...

As a quick aside, the whole suicide thing...

Meh! Tried it - it doesn't work. You only end up having to come back and start the whole process all over again. And that's only after you've spent a REALLY dismal and uncertain amount of "Time", chained to the consequences for those that Love you, of your action.

You know, by all means, give it a go if you're really curious; but I can GUARANTEE you, you will discover nothing beyond what I've just told you. You'll just end up right back where you are now, and nothing will be any different to the way it is now. Oh, except that you'll have to go through all the really bad bits of what you're going through now: ALL OVER AGAIN!

Still, I'm not here to judge... ;-)

...

Let's talk about the pressure you are under shall we?

http://www.1person.com/audio/mad_world.mp3

"All around me are familiar facesWorn out places, worn out faces Bright and early for their daily racesGoing nowhere, going nowhereTheir tears are filling up their glassesNo expression, no expression Hide my head I want to drown my sorrowNo tomorrow, no tomorrowAnd I find it kind of funnyI find it kind of sadThe dreams in which I'm dyingAre the best I've ever hadI find it hard to tell youI find it hard to takeWhen people run in circlesIt's a very, veryMad World Mad world

Children waiting for the day they feel goodHappy Birthday, Happy Birthday And I feel the way that every child shouldSit and listen, sit and listen Went to school and I was very nervousNo one knew me, no one knew me Hello teacher tell me what's my lessonLook right through me, look right through meAnd I find it kind of funnyI find it kind of sadThe dreams in which I'm dyingAre the best I've ever hadI find it hard to tell youI find it hard to takeWhen people run in circlesIt's a very, veryMad World Mad WorldEnlarging your world Mad World."

...

You come from a line of, shall we say, "accomplished" human beings.

That line you descended to this Life through, has gifted you certain qualities, qualities that are instantly recognisable to... Uh... "Those Who Have The Sight" ;-)

And - here comes the kicker - qualities that are subconsciously recognised by those who do not, yet, have the Sight.

Your friends, your teachers, your work colleagues, the guys and girls at =PBF=: they ALL recognise - at some level or other - your qualities. In fact, probably the only person who knows you who DOESN'T recognise those qualities: is YOU.

But that's okay, I'm here, and you know how much *I* Love to raise peoples' qualities to their own conscious attention. :)

Thing is, if you DID recognise your own qualities (rather than have me recognise them for you), you wouldn't, uh, qualify for those qualities.

Now, don't get me wrong here. The qualities you possess mean that you are certainly able to comprehend them; but a part of those qualities means that you don't WANT to recognise those qualities. And that, again, is just how it should be.

When it comes down to it, who REALLY wants to spend an entire fucking lifetime teaching these ungrateful apes, the Spiritual equivalent of wiping their own arses? You know, given a choice between, a Lifetime of altruism or a Lifetime of Hedonism, who WOULDN'T choose the fucked-up, fucked-out option?

Hah! I guess only those Beings conceived, and arriving in, blissful moments of Perfect Love...

Top Tip: NEVER make promises you can't guarantee your future Self is going to want to keep, whilst fucked up on drugs, or Love... There'll always be moments when you come to regret having to keep those promises...

But there you go, no point lamenting the past. You had the benefit of being able to see the WHOLE of your Life, when you promised your Self that you were going to be "Special", this Life. Ack, they'll probably end up carving "It Seemed to Him to Be a Good Idea at the Time..." on BOTH our gravestones...

There's no point lamenting the qualities you possess now, qualities that distinguish you from others, whilst at the same Time drawing those others closer to you; because you're basically stuck with them (the qualities AND those "others").

I'd get used to it, if I were you. The qualities you possess that inspire and comfort others, are only going to get stronger as you grow (hence your growing pains); and I can promise you of all People, that the number of "others" looking up to you is only going to grow as you grow.

Your challenge, right now, and for a while yet, is to try and establish an equilibrium for yourself, bring a bit of Balance into your Life.

The quality that will attract most others to you, is the quality we were talking about earlier today: your Individuality.

Whilst you couldn't (and probably still can't) describe your Individuality in words, you did immediately grasp what I was trying to define; you immediately understood the external dimensions of the concept I was defining.

The reason why you couldn't (and probably still can't) describe the internal qualities of your Individuality in words, is because that is simply impossible. The way you go (and Everyone of us goes) about describing your Individuality, is by Living it, by Being it. And that is something you can only do, if you give it no thought at all.

...

But let's get back to finding our Balance shall we?

The people who are attracted to you, the people who look up to you, crave your Individuality for themselves.

Unfortunately, they misinterpret this craving as wanting YOUR Individuality; rather than recognising what they TRULY crave, which is their OWN Individuality. And this means, unfortunately, that if you let them, they'll try and consume YOUR Individuality.

They'll do this by trying to make you their's. They'll do it by flattering you for the effortless way you glide through your Life, and then couple that flattery with a plea for assistance, because their lives seem to require SO MUCH effort. If you could just spare them a little bit of you, then everything will be alright; and you've got so much of you, that surely you can spare a tiny bit for them...

The problem that arises right there, is that once you relent, and give them a little bit of you, you're only going to make them hungry for more of you. You can't really blame them - you'd probably do the same in their position - but fucking hell! What about what YOU need?

Top Tip: Understand that what YOU need, for YOUR Self, is ALL you need to concern yourself with.

YOU don't need or have to do ANYTHING for anyone else. You ONLY have to do those things that you want to do, and which you feel like doing at any given Moment.

If you don't want to stay at University, leave; don't stay because others want you to, or expect it of you. If you don't want to stay in the Labour Party, leave; don't stay because it is the "Right" thing to do (for other people), or because you don't want to break the family tradition. If you don't like the job you are doing, then leave that; don't stay out of a sense of obligation to others.

Remember: others look up to you for your Individuality; not because of the things you do, or have done, or have "achieved".

Give them what they want: show them how to be a True Individual; show them how to follow their own hearts, not be a slave to moral, social or familial obligation and imperative. If you of all people cave in to "Duty" (howsoever defined), what hope for them?

BUT! (Before you rush off and book your ticket to Canada...) Don't forget we're looking for Balance here.

Just as important that you don't do things because others want you to do them, is that you don't NOT do things, just because others want you to do them.

That, I'm afraid, is a trap that claims many of the Best and Brightest of Us, and is certainly not the action of a Balanced Individual.

Remember, this is about you doing what YOU want to do. It may just be that in certain cases, what others want you to do, happily coincides with what you do actually want to do for yourself.

Not doing it then, just because others want you to do it, is just as much a surrender of your Individuality.

...

Let's talk about drink and drugs shall we?

http://www.1person.com/audio/crash95mix.mp3

"here you go, way too fastdon't slow down you're gonna crashyou should watch - watch your stay heredon't look out you're gonna break your neck

so shut , shut your mouthcause I'm not listening anyhowi've had enough, enough of youenough to last a life time throughso what do you want of me?got no words of sympathy and if i go around with youyou know that i'll get messed up too with you

na na na na nana na na na na

here you go way to fastdon't slow down you're gonna crashyou don't know what's been going downyou've been running all over town

so shut , shut your mouthcause i'm not listening anyhowi've had enough, enough of youenough to last a life time throughso what do you want of me?got no cure for misery and if I go around with youyou know that i'll get messed up too with you

with youna na na na naslow down you're gonna crashna na na na naslow down you're gonna crashna na na na naslow down you're gonna crash"

...

The "personality" you create when you take drugs, is what Holywoman calls a "Pseudo-Personality".

She doesn't just mean it is a false Personality, she means it is a pretend Personality, a "make-believe" Personality. When you take drugs, your making a Personality, whose priorities, dreams, desires, are all make believe; and, because that Personality is the combined construct of your mind and the drugs, you can pretty much make it Believe anything you want.

Which is, let's face it: fucking AWESOME!

Unfortunately, in this Duality within which we exist, Everything comes with a flip-side. And the flip-side to being able to make your "Pseudo-Personality" believe anything you want it to; is that your Pseudo-Personality can make you Believe, well, a lot of things that you'd really rather not believe.

Your narcotic and/or alcohol induced Pseudo-Personality distorts Reality for you - that's kinda the reason why we take drugs and get pissed in the first place. Unfortunately, that Pseudo-Personality continues to distort Reality for you, long after you want it to stop doing that.

There's really no avoiding it: what goes up, must come down.

That's okay, if you're prepared to accept that dynamic. I always have, and I've always had a great time on drugs. However, in order to achieve that acceptance (that Balance), I've had to reverse the flow. I've made it so that I don't especially enjoy the going up, but really try to enjoy the coming down. (I'm not always that much fun at parties then...)

The way to tell if you have accepted this dynamic, is to look at just how many "decisions" you've made, whilst under the influence of your Pseudo-Personality. If you've made - or are still making - Life Decisions, whilst you've got alcohol or a narcotic in your system; then you clearly haven't understood the purpose of taking drugs.

We're supposed to take drugs because we want to get away from it all; not so that we can bear being CLOSER to it all. Taking drugs should be like playing, uh, "Oblivion" (naturally...). It should be an escape from the mundane factors and repetitive chores of Life. It's a mental and Emotional break from our actual Existence: what it isn't, is a substitute for our Existence.

Basically, any decision you've ever made whilst drunk or high, is null and void. You can't hold your Self to those decisions, because they weren't really "Your" decisions. They were decisions a make-believe "You" made, and those decisions are no less make-believe than "You" were, when you made them.

If you're totally cool with your Life, if you've got no pressing Life decisions to make, if you've found your groove and are now settling down for the "Long Run", with the person or people you Love most in the Whole World: then get out of your box, man; fill your boots; spliff-up a bong; toot your horn; bang your E's. If you've got nothing that needs your attention, if you're all set, then it really doesn't matter. Since you've got no pressing decisions to attend to, you don't have to worry about your "Pseudo-Personality" screwing up any decisions.

But if you HAVE got some pressing issues to deal with in your Life; if you have got some choices to make about what you're going to do in your Life, and with your Life: then lay off the pills, weed and booze for a while, until you've got all those things sorted out. Once you're sorted, well, you can Get Sorted! (If you know what I mean... ;-))

And if you've allowed your "Pseudo-Personality" to make any decisions for you recently, which your REAL Personality - your REAL INDIVIDUALITY - has cause to regret...

Well what the fuck are you doing sitting here reading the ramblings of a drug-addled Holyman for?

Get your arse round to Tanya's and say: "I've been a complete twat. That really wasn't my True Self speaking; this IS now my True Self speaking, and I've been a complete idiot. I Love you Unconditionally, and want to share the Rest of My Life with you."

If she tells you to "Fuck Off!", and slams the door in your face, well... That'll learn you, won't it?

If she smiles and cries, embraces you, and then shares with you the best make-up sex ever... Well, aren't you just the Lucky Boy. :)

I can't tell you which it'll be, or if it'll be something in between. But let's face it, it would spoil the trepidation, excitement and fun if I did, now wouldn't it?

If she does let you back into her arms, now, or at some future moment, it is vitally important that you impress upon her, the absolute necessity of never, ever, ever, EVER taking anything you EVER say again, while drunk or high, remotely seriously.

Of course, if you say something hurtful to her, while you're drunk or stoned, then she is within her rights to take it whatever way she chooses. And you, I'm afraid, will have to live with that: hopefully learning some valuable Life Lessons in the process.

And that, is all I have to say about that.

...

Look, the reason why you are behaving so recklessly and so self-destructively, is because your Soul is trying to tell you something that your mind is refusing to listen to.

What that actually is, is something known only to your Soul, and your mind: it's not my place to speculate.

But, since I enjoy placing myself where I'm not supposed to go... :)

What you are doing in and with your Life at the moment, is not at all important. What IS important, is how you FEEL about what you are doing in your Life.

Your lineage means that you don't HAVE to worry about WHAT you are doing. Whatever it is that you end up doing, will be precisely the thing that you should be doing.

Stay at Uni, become Prime Minister of Australia, climb a mountain, solve Global Poverty, it really doesn't matter. Drop out, fly to Canada, hug trees, get in touch with your Self: sounds like it might be the Right Thing, but who fucking knows? Or cares?

It isn't about what you end up doing, but how you go about doing whatever it is you're going to be doing. Most importantly, it is about WHY you do whatever it is that you will do.

...

http://www.1person.com/audio/bargain.mp3

"I'd gladly lose me to find youI'd gladly give up all I hadTo find you I'd suffer anything and be gladI'd pay any price just to get youI'd work all my life and I willTo win you I'd stand naked, stoned and stabbedI'd call that a bargainThe best I ever hadThe best I ever hadI'd gladly lose me to find youI'd gladly give up all I gotTo catch you I'm gonna run and never stopI'd pay any price just to win youSurrender my good life for badTo find you I'm gonna drown an unsung manI'd call that a bargainThe best I ever hadThe best I ever hadI sit looking 'roundI look at my face in the mirrorI know I'm worth nothing without youAnd like one and one don't make twoOne and one make oneAnd I'm looking for that free ride to meI'm looking for youI'd gladly lose me to find youI'd gladly give up all I gotTo catch you I'm gonna run and never stopI'd pay any price just to win youSurrender my good life for badTo find you I'm gonna drown an unsung manI'd call that a bargainThe best I ever hadThe best I ever had"

...

It's YOU that you are looking for; it is YOUR face that you look at in the mirror; and it is YOU that is nothing without YOU.

One and One really DOES make One.

This whole thing about others looking up to you, the way that you inspire people, with your Individuality... If it didn't piss you off that you do it, you wouldn't be qualified TO do it.

Can you imagine what some of our, uh, "friends" on =PBF= would be like, if they had the ability to inspire and influence others the way that you do? There are those who crave nothing more than to be respected, feted, honoured, admired and adored. Stop to think just what kind of a World they'd create if they held that kind of Power over other Souls.

No, YOU'VE got those qualities, BECAUSE you don't want them: THAT'S the Paradox my old friend.

But here's The Balance:

GO with your thoughts of contempt and derision; exercise the disdain and desperation you think about when you encounter such dullards; give free reign to all those "Bad" and "Wrong" thoughts you have about those "Others".

I can assure you that given the Nature of your Heart and Soul, there is absolutely NO way you could ever become like the assholes who crave our effortless Being. You don't need to worry about turning into a Devil: it is only a myth that any Angel ever managed to do that, just because they got pissed off with their Father and Mother.

In short Sanders: you have nothing to worry about; and nothing to be afraid of.

You're Unique, but you're not Special; and you are an Individual, but you are NOT Alone.

The quality that most distinguishes you from others, is that when you look into another's eyes, you see your Self.

And when other's look into your eyes, they see your eyes, looking into them, and seeing your Self in them.

This is the most glorious manifestation of Love.

It takes some getting used to, because we're simply not prepared for it by our family and by our Society.

We ARE taught to see Fear and Hostility in each other's eyes, not Love. The only Fear and Hostility we actually see in each other's eyes, is the reflection of our own Fears and doubts.

But you know, that's okay, We are here now. WE can make sure that future generations ARE allowed to remember the Love they see in other's eyes, from the moment they are born.

And we make sure of that by making sure that when we look in anyone's eyes - ESPECIALLY our own - we always look first and last, at the Love in those eyes.

As for what you're feeling right now: don't wish it away - it's Good Stuff - better than ANY drug or drink.

It is REAL FEELING, REAL LOVE, REAL EMOTION: IT *IS* REALITY.

Try to resist the "pain", and it will endure; embrace it, and it will make you grow.

So dwell in it, Be with it, celebrate it; respond to the "Negativity" with your Positivity: make something "Bad", Good.

Turn this moment of temporary Panic in your relationship with Tanya, into the Rock on which your Life Partnership is built. If that is the way it is meant to be, that IS the way you will make it Be.

Just Be Your Self: and really, you can't ever go wrong. :)

Love and Peace,

Stephen

Postscript:

http://www.1person.com/audio/EveryStrangersEyes.mp3

"In truck stops and hamburger jointsIn Cadillac limousinesIn the company of has-beensAnd bent-backs and sleeping formsOn pavement stepsIn libraries and railway stationsIn books and banksIn the pages of historyIn suicidal cavalry attacksI recognise...Myself in every stranger's eyesAnd now from where I standUpon this hill I plundered from the poolI look around, I search the skiesI shade my eyes, so nearly blindAnd I see signs of half remembered daysI hear bells that chime in strange familiar waysI recognise...The hope you kindle in your eyesIt's oh so easy nowAs we lie here in the darkNothing interferes it's obviousHow to beat the tearsThat threaten to snuff outThe spark of our love"