[quote]...really gives you the shits doesn't he? Amusing reading your posts, but really, picking on a dumb hick such as himself is like dynamiting fish in a barrel.[/quote]

I know, I know... And it is to my eternal shame that I keep getting sucked into his vacuous world...

I just think that to Exist without Purpose is just about the only "sin" humans are capable of: and he really does serve no purpose at =PBF=.

He got under my skin from the moment he first showed up, and the manner of his showing up had as much to do with that as anything else.

BUT! I'm gonna try my best to rise above it all. He probably is the True Yang to my Yin, so I suppose I should recognise that and just live with it/him.

I really will try...

[quote]Also, I may have just landed myself a job that you may find interesting. I'll be a staffer to the new Australian Minister for the Enviroment and Arts...Peter Garrett, former frontman for Midnight Oil, an Australian rock band that was very big in the 1970s. Work would just be basic secretarial stuff, but I'd be on 50 grand a year and they'd continue to sponsor me through university, which would be awesome. [/quote]

That does sound ideal for you - particularly with that pay packet: not bad at all for a staffer.

And I am vaguely familiar with Midnight Oil too, got one of their albums somewhere: will have to dig it out!

Funny how Environment and the Arts are in the same Ministerial Portfolio... Do you see that changing now that Rudd has signed you lot up to Kyoto?

You've got a golden opportunity here to shape your future direction in Politics. My advice would be to not get too embroiled in the politicking or even policy setting: try to keep your eyes open for the way that the underlying Systems direct, dictate and limit individual behaviours.

Always look for the common sense (if present) in what people are saying; and if you can't make sense of what's just been said, SAY SO!

[quote]How did you get to where you are without a degree by the way? Didn't you say you earn a quarter million quid a year? [/quote]

Think I actually said "More than a quarter of a million (U.S.) dollars", but it's actually somewhere between those two currency measures. :)

How did I get to the position I'm in now..?

Good question...

I left school at 17, having flunked out of Further Education, and sort of fell towards the Army, for a very, *VERY* brief stint. After that, I worked in fairly menial jobs for the next 3 years. But I have to say, I was really happy, really content in those jobs (much to my then girlfriend's chagrin...). I worked with some really good people, driving forklifts, quarry trucks, bulldozers, and other heavy plant; and kind of fell into a laboratory work at an aggregates quarry, I guess because others recognised my brain and figured they could put it to better use.

I'd been mucking about with computers since my dad had the foresight to buy me one at age 10 (1981), and when computers turned up in the lab in 1990, I was the natural candidate to take care of them.

From that point on, it was just a question of moving from job to job as I got bored of either the workplace, or the duties.

As you'll discover in your new job, it's quite difficult to get promoted/move up the food-chain if you stay in the same organisation; this because internal promotions rarely happen because of merit or ability, but because of politics and (human) networking.

The strategy I took fairly early on in my career was to always reach a little higher each time I looked for a new job. That is, take on a job that required more of me, tested me more, and allowed me to develop; and when I'd reached the end of the learning curve, repeat the process at the next higher stage.

So the conventional approach is either to advance your career vertically, within the same organisation; or transfer horizontally to another.

I kind of took the (upwards) diagonal approach. It required a certain amount of blagging, but I've never been short of confidence or charm, so that wasn't too much of a challenge. :)

By the time I went freelance, in 1995, that became even easier, because I could much more easily pick the contracts that would best serve that diagonal career progression.

And by the time I arrived at the organisation I currently work with, I'd fully realised that more important than any qualification, was a thorough confidence in my own Experience; as well as a solid belief in what it was I wanted to do with my Life. Essentially, I realised that I was most effective at, and most comfortable with being paid to, Be My Self.

Maybe it was because I'd chosen IT Systems for my career that I was able to advance the way I have. When I first started working with computers they really were completely novel. So by the beginning of the 21st Century, I was really confident in my own IT expertise, and more able to inspire others' confidence in same.

Once you pass a certain level on the Wage/Salary-Food Chain, it becomes much easier to advance, because there isn't anyone ahead of, or above you, apart from Organisation Principles (Company Owners, Secretaries of State etc.). And those guys are always looking for people who can reliably take up responsibilities and duties in a way that frees them to focus on strategic development of their operations.

In short then, it's really about personality, experience, and confidence in your own subject matter expertise. We're actually finding these days that degrees and other academic qualifications have the tendency to work against those qualities.

It is most obvious with technology, but increasingly in all areas of business and organisational management, what you may have learned over three or four years of academic learning, is all but redundant by the time a person graduates to full time work. This because the rate of Change in "Best Practice", and of course, technology and operational systems is so rapid that it is very hard for academic institutions and educators to keep pace.

That's not to say that Academic Education isn't still valuable as a career foundation; just that if people start working believing that their degree means they know everything there is to know, they may not be as effective as someone who is combining learning with vocational experience. And since vocational experience increasingly entails considerable on-the-spot learning these days, it could be observed that taking 3 or 4 years out of the activity you want to be doing to research academic principles, may be more of a hindrance than a help...

At core, it is about Belief: Self-Belief; and Belief in what you are doing.

If you don't Believe that you're doing what you want to be doing, and if you don't Believe in what it is you are doing: you really are doomed to just march to someone else's tune, and will never fully realise your own potential.

Every day, and always, the question you ask yourself when you're leaving your home on your way to work is:

Am I doing what I want to be doing?

The answer may not, at least initially, always be an emphatic "Yes!"; but so long as you can draw a path between what you ARE doing, and what you want to be doing, and can really see daily progress along that path, then "Almost!" is at least as good an answer. :)

Forget about money, forget about status: just focus on what it will feel like to be fulfilled in your daily work activities.

When you reach that point of near or absolute fulfilment, well, in my experience, the money just seems to roll in without any effort at all. ;)

Peace

Stephen