[quote=SomeGuy[PCNC]][color=red]So what do you propose to fix all these things Hman? Tax and trade? Cap and tax? Kilometer long regulations? Mandatory euthanasia? Harsh sentences for having more than 1 child? Having to "apply" to have a child a la dystopian fiction? Forced inefficiencies like the mercury lightbulbs?

No really, I would like you to put out what you think should be done.[/color][/quote]

OK.

Humanity needs to change its attitude.

That's it. That's all that is needed SomeGuy.

I wouldn't presume to propose specific solutions for the many and varied practical challenges that Humanity faces. I'm honest enough to admit that there are people far more informed on the various subjects and their possible solutions than I am. I don't even know enough to understand whether the Climate is heating up as a result of Human actions or not. So I wouldn't begin to suggest what a solution to the Climate Change Debate should be.

However, I do recognise what seems to be a common theme running through all the problems, debates, and proposed solutions. And that is an attitude that many of us seem to share.

And that attitude is that many of us seem to believe that we are somehow separate from one another; that we can somehow live our lives separately from each other.

Oh, at first glance there does seem to be a degree of cohesion, at least in certain ethnic and Nationalist blocs. But that is only how it appears to the outsider.

Listen to those on the inside of the American Nationalist bloc, for instance, and there is a wide sense of separation between those who identify themselves as Republicans, and those who identify themselves as Democrats. Is there unity amongst the American Republicans then? No, not really, there are more fractions (and fractures) within the Republican Party than without.

It's the same anywhere else SG, I'm not picking on Americans, just using an illustration that is likely to be familiar to you.

Look at Religion. There's this one God who was worshipped by a chap called Abraham a few thousand years ago. Now you would think that worshipping the same God would be a unifying activity; a behaviour that would bring people together. But no.

In the first instance, worshippers of that same God are divided between Judaism, Christianity and Islam. In the second instance, pick anyone of those factions, and they divide down further: Hassidic and Reformed; Protestant and Eastern Orthodox; Sunni and Shia. And each one of those groupings divides further and further still.

And at each iteration, there is the sense that adherents to a particular creed, national or political identity, or cultural ideology are separate from those who don't share the same idea.

And we are still creating new ideological schisms.

Right now, we're talking about an ideological schism between those who believe that Humanity is adversely affecting the Earth's Climate, and those who believe that Humanity isn't. And let's not be dishonest with ourselves. There are as many people arguing for one side or the other of the Climate Change Debate who have fully familiarised themselves with [b]ALL[/b] the scientific data relating to it, as there are people involved in religious debates who have fully memorised the Torah, the Bible [b]AND[/b] the Koran.

No, we Humans have this attitude that we can somehow continue to exist separately from those who believe differently to ourselves; especially if we are on the Right Side of the Argument.

If we are honest with ourselves, we all know that our ideological positions and arguments aren't [b]COMPLETELY[/b] watertight, not utterly unarguable. If we did, then we wouldn't bother to argue with other people.

I don't argue with anyone that there is a biological difference between men and women, for example, because it is such an obvious statement of fact that it isn't open to argument. If I encountered someone who really believed that there were no biological differences between male and females, I wouldn't waste my energy trying to convince them otherwise. I would just look at them askance and wonder what fucking planet they were from.

But if I [b]DO[/b] find myself arguing a point, then it is [b]BECAUSE[/b] I am not wholly convinced of my own reasoning, and I want to test my position in the crucible of debate.

But believing ourselves to be completely right isn't the aim of the exercise: we just want to believe ourselves to be more right than anyone else.

The problem is that we so passionately pursue that aim, that we forget to remind ourselves that we know we are not completely right; we get so locked into proving ourselves more right than those with whom we are arguing, that we lose the intellectual humility that is vital for keeping an open mind. Without keeping our minds open, there is a good chance we'll end up missing those vital pieces of information that expand and reinforce our understanding of the World we live in.

And more than that, we close our minds off to that 1% of our opponent's argument that is actually keeping us from refining our own positions to that of 100% correctness.

In other words: we don't learn anything from people who already believe the same as we do, who already know what we know; we learn from those who know something that we [i]don't[/i] already know.

And here's the problem with separating ourselves from those who believe or argue differently to ourselves: We Still Have To Live With Them.

Oh, of course, every now and then, History will throw up a character like Hitler or Stalin, who actually believes that they [b]DON'T[/b] have to live with people who believe differently to them. But that sort of behaviour got a really bad press in the 20th Century, and it is unlikely that anyone is ever going to be allowed to get away with it again.

So we are stuck with having to share our World with people who believe differently to ourselves.

And we can't separate ourselves from that understanding, anymore than we can live in separate biospheres from one another.

We need to understand and adopt the attitude that We Are All In This Together.

We waste [b]HUGE[/b] amounts of our personal energy trying to prove to one another who is more Right; who has the Right Solution; who has the Right Beliefs; who has the Right Theories; who has access to the Right Information. It is something that we seem willing to sacrifice just about anything for, even our own lives: To Be Right.

The Truth is that if just a small portion of that Energy was spent working together, collectively addressing the challenges that we all face together (whether we like it or not), then we are going to make considerably more progress than we do just sitting around waiting for someone to come up with "The Killer Fact", or "The Final Solution", or "The Answer to Everything".

If it isn't getting clear to us by now that no-one ever manages to produce the "One Right Argument" that silences all critics, then maybe it never will. Meanwhile, we are turning our World into a cesspit filled with the waste from our comfort-consumption, and the lives wasted through opportunities lost because nobody could agree on the Right Way Forward.

There [b]IS NO[/b] "Right Way Forward": there is only The Way Forward. If something can be measured as progress, as a change for the better, then that is by definition correct. If it isn't progress, if it isn't a change for the better, if it is a regression, then that is by definition incorrect.

And we only find out whether something moves us forward or not, by trying it out. Standing at a crossroads trying to guess which is the Right Path, doesn't move us any closer to our destination. But the good news is that there are enough of us to try EVERY direction, and when one or some of us can demonstrate that they have found the direction that progresses our collective journey, then that information can be shared for the benefit of all.

It is only the Illusion of Separation that convinces us that we can hold onto something only for ourselves indefinitely. It is only the attitude that we can and do live separately from one another that deludes us into thinking that we can act in a way that is beneficial to the minority but detrimental to the majority, for any sustained period of Time.

Perhaps that was the case when there was a Whole World to explore; but we reached the limits of physical exploration when we put some guys on the Moon, who discovered that there wasn't anything of any much note to be had there.

So now we know that we all exist in a Closed System. Now we all know that Everything We Have, Is All That We Have. What we have to do now is figure out a way of creating a [b]SUSTAINABLE[/b] Existence within that Closed System. We have to figure out a way of existing in a balanced and harmonious way, with each other, and with our Natural Environment.

And the good news is that there are a [b]LOT[/b] of very smart human beings within our Closed System. The Human Race is inventing newer and more mind-boggling technology every day; technology that if shared and applied globally, will go a long way to solving many of the existential challenges we [b]ALL[/b] face together.

We just need to figure out how to share our finite resources with each other; and how to apply our new technology and new understanding in a practical, purposeful and progressive way.

And we can't do that whilst we are wasting the bulk of our Energy arguing with one another about who should go first, about who has the Right Idea that Everyone Else can support.

We don't need those arguments. There are enough of us with enough time on our hands to conduct as many different experiments and intellectual explorations as we could ever need. We have invented computers with the power to process massive amounts of data, which can model as many different scenarios as we can ever imagine.

We just need to utilise our energies more cooperatively. And competition [b]IS[/b] a form of cooperation: it's just an issue of whether the competition's prize is something we want to own ourselves; or something we are willing to share with each other.

So SomeGuy: I'll leave finding a solution to runaway population increases to the sociologists and public health experts; I'll leave finding a solution to Climate Change (if indeed, a solution is required) to those scientists and environmental engineers who understand the subject matter; and I'll leave engineering a sustainable and non-cyclical Economic System to those who are fully informed on the subject.

As a parent myself, I know that the joy of having a child is one of the brightest events in my Life; and I'm pretty sure that if the circumstances of my Life weren't as blessed and as comfortable as they are, I would probably keep having more kids just to serve as an antidote to the depressing realities of Life that so many other people have to face.

I'm pretty sure that any sociologist or anthropologist would point out to you a direct correlation between the number of children being borne to a set of parents, and the quality of life experienced by those parents. In other words, if Life is made more comfortable, with more opportunities for more people, then maybe they will stop having children to try and combat their own depression.

I don't think we need any one scientist or single group of scientists or religionists to come up with the "One Right Solution" that we can all apply in our lives; and I am absolutely certain that we're never going to get a "Right Solution" from any fucking politician.

I think if we can each just turn to the person sitting next to us and recognise that whatever the Future holds, it holds True for ALL OF US, then we will go a long way to liberating ourselves from the attitude that our lives are in any way separate from each others'.

And when enough people change that attitude, I think we will be able to stop wasting our Energies trying to prove to each other who is more Right, and get on with creating what, fundamentally, We All Want: Security, Stability, Opportunity, Sustainability, and Prosperity.

[face_peace]