I think those MOST in need of Sex Education, are parents, teachers, politicians, religious leaders and other "Pillars of the Community".

Let's get one thing straight: no animal or plant needs to be educated to have sex. Our World and our Society wouldn't have uh, come (...) as far as it has, if it wasn't for the fact that the urge to procreate is keyed into the genes of every living being.

And it isn't about educating children on the perils of unwanted pregnancies either. It is almost a cliché that the first conversations that most parents have with their children, is about where babies come from. Children are aware that Sex = Procreation from an early age.

So children don't need to be shown how to physically go about having sex with each other; and they shouldn't really need to be educated by their schools about the link between sex and pregnancy.

What children in schools perhaps [b]*SHOULD*[/b] be educated about, is the confused, taboo, often counter-productive, and almost always hypocritical attitudes that adults have to sex.

It isn't the Children of Today that have sexualised so many aspects of our Society: it is we adults.

There is no escaping the fact that sex is possibly the most fun thing that human beings can do, without having to spend any money. And it is this fact that is behind the attempts of so many marketing and advertising campaigns to try and convince consumers that spending money on certain lifestyle commodities, [b]*IS*[/b] a way of spending money to have sex.

The result is a highly sexually charged media environment, which are children are now growing up in.

If we adult males talk to our fathers and grandfathers about the availability and quality of porn in their day, it becomes apparent that sexualised images we 21st Century males are just as likely to dismiss as boring, when we see it on daytime TV, was virtually considered hardcore pornography fifty years ago; and a hundred years ago, would have seen the publishers imprisoned.

But nowadays, having at once expressed our outrage and disgust at the actions of paedophiles, after watching the latest report on their activities; we will then switch channels to happily watch Britney Spears, dressed as a school girl, asking us to "hit" her, "Baby", one more time...

Our children don't need to be educated about how to have sex, or even how to have sex safely: they need to be taught how to make sense of their parents' and societies' conflicting, confusing and hypocritical attitudes to sex.

And don't even get me started on morality.

Sexual attitudes are not a moral issue. Moral attitudes and moral monopolists would dearly like sex to be a moral issue, for reasons (possibly) best known to their selves. But the contrasting evidence from societies with progressive and open attitudes to sex, like the Scandinavians and Dutch; and from societies with moralistic and religious attitudes to sex, like the Americans and British, is clear.

The more that societies and parents try to convince their children that sex is a morally subversive or existentially damaging activity: the more their children are drawn to the shadows created around sex.

And the more open and enlightened an attitude to sex that parents and societies try to instil in their children: the more healthy, respectful and positive an appreciation of sex is generated for our children.

Sex education in schools needs to be a demystifying and enlightening activity.

It should not be yet another way of instilling fear in our children.

Peace