[quote=[CAT]Spandex][quote=Holyman2012][color=blue] my reaction was more about feelings of sadness about what the girls in the video have been reduced to[/color][/quote]

[color=purple]Yeah that's what gets me. It's the same whenever I see any of the nastier side of porn. One can only assume that people make videos of ritual humiliation and degredation of woman because there is an audience for them. I find this confusing. I dunno about anyone else but my sexual predilections and even my darkest and weirdest fantasies involve a female partner who is both willing and enthusiastic about what I am doing to her.

There may be an element of "submission" to your partner but humiliating them doesn't come into it. I don't think... It could be deeply buried I guess...[/color][/quote]

I think it has a lot to do with the reduction of people to sexual objects.

Men particularly, during adolescence, tend to lock-on to fantasies that involve others being reduced to pliant participants in the indulgence of purely sexual activities. It doesn't really leave a lot of room for Love.

When we see a "Good Time Girl"  in a pornographic context, we guys like to imagine that really, women are just waiting to cast aside social etiquette and niceties, and get down to the serious business of sexually pleasuring men. I think we like to imagine the possibility of sex without consequence or responsibility, little more than extended masturbation.

I've consumed my fair share of pornography - I don't think I could speak authoritatively on the subject otherwise... :) - but like you Spandex, have always needed that porn to be about fun, and willing participation; not submission or degradation.

My particular peccadillo has always been "Group Action", with as high a female to male ratio as possible (100 Valkyries and, uh, me as the sole representative of the male gender is my idea of Heaven ;)). And I'm delighted to have been able to bring some of those fantasies into my Reality, on more than a few occasions in my Life... ☺

And my biggest turn-on has always been feeling how much I'm turning on my partner.

Now whilst that's about the limit of my own tastes, I can kind of understand why certain other peccadilloes have an attraction for others. But when it comes to things like shit-eating, I'm afraid that is way outside of my facility to relate to it in anyway, let alone sexually.

I can't even get my mind, much less my libido, around the idea of anal sex - and maybe coprophillia is just an extension of that...

I mean, faced with a warm, wet vagina, I can't imagine why any sincerely heterosexual male would be attracted to "Back-door Action". The only girls I've know who were into it, are those who seem to have been compelled to, uh, "accommodate" a previous partner's predilections for sodomy; or those girls who may well have been "damaged", somewhere along the path of their sexual awakening, and like to flirt with the idea of sexual victimisation, or being used as a sexual object, to get their rocks off.

So that was kind of the reason why I linked the "2 girls, 1 cup" thing with the story of that poor girl in Saudi Arabia.

When we men in the West start criticising other Cultures for treating Women as property or objects, we ought to take a very close look at whether or not we have our own House in order first.

Peace