In Reply To #40

In Reply To #36

The times have changed Holyman.  It has been a long time since Hoover's FBI.  You are too paranoid.

Yeah, yeah, yeah Foota, I'm the one that's paranoid. :)

Look out FOOTA! I think there's an Islamofascist behind you!!! ;-)

We can't keep secrets like we used to.  Everything from NSA wiretaps, Abu Graib photos, secret prisons are leaked to the press within days.  The internet and bloggers have made things more transparent.  We had one of our country's largest media organization getting caught red-handed pushing forged memos to try and defeat Bush in the 2004 election.  They are not afraid of backlash. We have numerous "celebrities" like Sheehan and the Hollywood crowd that call Bush everything from Hitler to the Devil.  Yet no one is disappearing or getting "Black listed".  In fact, these people increase their celebrity as they attack Bush more and more.

There is nothing to fear Holyman, you can make the most outlandish claims against the US government these days and you get rewarded and lionized.

Surely "demonised" Mrs. Malaprop? :)

People who make any negative or critical claims about the Bush Administration, are still demonised by the Right Wing Foota, just as they were in McCarthy's day - look at your own actions towards those who do it around here.

AND those same people are rewarded and lionised by those on the Left Wing, whose views they represent.

Don't you lionise and reward President Bush and the Republican Party for representing your views Foota?

If there was any there (there) to the Bush lied allegation, it would have been dug up by now.

But plenty has been dug up Foota, just no "smoking gun".

Possibly the most damning piece of evidence is the so-called "Downing Street Memo".

The Downing Street "Memo" is actually the minutes of a meeting, transcribed during a gathering many of the British Prime Minister's senior ministers on July 23, 2002. Published by The Sunday Times on May 1, 2005 this document was the first hard evidence from within the UK or US governments that exposed the truth about how the Iraq war began.

Since that time, much more information has come to light through leaks of secret government documents and the accounts of an increasing number of people who have witnessed the administration's wrongdoing firsthand.

There is now in the public record a large body of evidence that vividly illustrates:

Bush's long-standing intent to invade Iraq

Bush's willingness to provoke Saddam (in a variety of ways) into providing a pretext for war

The fact that the war effectively began with an air campaign nearly a year before the March 2003 invasion and months before Congressional approval for the use of force

The administration's widespread effort to crush dissent and manipulate information that would counter its justification for war

The lack of planning for the war's aftermath and a fundamental lack of understanding of the Iraqi society

From cherry-picked intelligence to a non-existent plan to win the peace; from no-bid contracts for reconstruction to character assassination for anyone who dares to question the premises of the war-the Bush administration has perpetrated what is by any measure one of the most egregious

(from: http://www.downingstreetmemo.com/ )

What makes it "most damning" is the fact that the UK Government has never denied, or attempted to invalidate the memo; the policy position of the Blair Government has been to simply refuse to comment upon it.

However, "most damning" the memo may be though, it is still circumstantial; it is just a note from a second-party witness about conversations that may or may not directly implicate the Bush Administration - though the memo certainly appears to do so.

The "Downing Street Memo" is just the most damning of a pile of circumstantial evidence and eye-witness testimonials that implicates the Bush Administration in High Crimes and Misdemeanours against the Constitution and People of the United States of America.

Maybe you could ask Aggie if in his considered, objective opinion as a Law Enforcement Officer, whether he would consider a similar amount of circumstantial evidence as sufficient grounds to begin a full and open investigation into any other sort of crime.

What they do is, uh, "detect" that a crime may have taken place. Then they "investigate" the Truth of that suspicion, looking for solid proof to support it, and ideally unobstructed by those who may wish to pervert the course of this specific justice. And if such evidence is found to support allegations of criminal wrong-doing, a case is mounted in a Court of Law, to prove beyond a reasonable doubt, the Truth of the allegations of criminality.

Remember, it is and should be "innocent until proven guilty" - though I notice a similar standard wasn't applied to that other great criminal President of our Time, Saddam Hussein. But the point is that Law Enforcement Officials don't wait until they have absolute evidence of a crime before arresting and charging an individual.

Now, in certain cases, certain serious cases, like paedophilia for example, even the merest whiff of suspicion is rightly considered socially acceptable grounds for an investigation into any possible criminal activity under that charge. If you had to wait until solid proof of child sexual abuse emerged before being able to undertake a criminal investigation, well, there would be even more fucked-up kids around than there are now, wouldn't there?

So, the question is Foota, on a scale where paedophilia is so serious a crime that even slight suspicion of it is absolutely necessary grounds for a thorough investigation, how serious would you say the crimes that the Bush Administration is suspected of carrying out are?

More serious or less serious than paedophilia?

The "Truther" crowd still has to get around the glaring holes in their conspiracy charges:

- Why did so many Democrats make the same argument?

Because there are no ideological differences between the Republican and Democrat Parties of the United States.

Whilst the People of the United States of America clearly voted in the Democrat Party to control of Congress last November, in order to represent their views; last Friday, the Democrat Party ignored the wishes of those who voted them into power, and voted according to the wishes of their campaign funders.

And the same corporations, special interest groups and political action committees support the Democrat Party as support the Republican Party (it's a bit like when the U.S. supported both Iraq and Iran during the Iran-Iraq War).

The only thing that differs slightly between the Republican and Democrat Parties, is their methods, their manifesto objectives and constituency commitments are identical.

But that's not really any different from the situation is most other Western Democracies these days...

- Why didn't Bush have a plan to plant a few barrels of Sarin if he "knew" it was a lie all along?

You know Foota, I wonder if you ever even bother to try and make sense of your own arguments...

On the above evidence, clearly not.

After all, depending on the day of the week and the amount of pills the Bush Derangement Crowd has in their system that day  - Bush is either a Machiavellian genius capable of 9/11 conspiracies or a bumbling monkey who can't dress himself.

I just wish you guys would get your stories straight.

You do understand that "[we] guys" all think independently of each other, don't you?

Or is such a concept incomprehensible to you?

;-)

Peace