In Reply To #74

In Reply To #72

Anyone won yet?

Was it ever a contest? These things always end the same: Badly for Foota.

It's unfortunate for Foota that the only person with the time or inclination to lock horns with him happens to be one of the few who is clearly his intellectual superior.

Ah, well, very nice of you to say so Spandex.

But modesty forbids complete acceptance of the compliment; and intellectual honesty demands that I just clarify something...

It isn't, I don't feel, about any kind of intellectual superiority on my part, in these little contretemps that Foota and I regularly engage in.

Rather, it is about Foota's wilful intellectual dishonesty on matters relating to the Bush Administration, which makes his intellect appear inferior to mine, and, well, many others around here too.

See, I don't see it so much as locking horns with Foota, personally; but rather that I constantly challenge the propaganda and faux-ideology he spouts around here.

Foota is a decent, intelligent, articulate personality; frequently warm and sensitive towards others, it is just the endless parroting of (U.S.) establishment propaganda, and obtuse defence of same, which makes him appear so obnoxious.

Compare and contrast with Some-Tick-from-PCNC for example, and you can see how much more reprehensible that same propaganda appears, when spewed out by someone with no discernible personality, and a barren intellect.

No, no. I'm not saying I'd go on holiday with Foota, or marry one of his female relatives; but I'd be as keen to join him for a drink as I would most any of the =PBF= regulars (including Alaskan Viking, believe it or not :)).

The trick is to be able to separate the Whole Person from the dissonant information they self-identify with.

That PCNC guy could come over all Pacifist, Spiritual, Humanist and Internationalist, but I'd still think he was a twat. Foota on the other hand, when you dissociate him from his ardent and uncritical support of American Militarism - and the intellectual dishonesty upon which he has to found his supporting arguments - well, he's a cool enough guy.

Fundamentally, I suppose Foota presents a sort of aggregate view of the attitudes and sensibilities, held by many of his demographic, which I consider to be retarding Human Evolution. To that end, it is very helpful to have someone around who can be guaranteed to support and represent the positions of the most powerful elites in Human Society, regardless of how morally repugnant those positions are.

If Foota wasn't already a member of =PBF= : I'd have to invent him. :)

Peace