In Reply To #85

In Reply To #73

Thanks for the kind words and psycho-analysis Holyman.  Needless to say, I may request a 2nd opinion.

You always should. :)

After all this time, you still have not figured me out.  You should have taken me up on drinks in Amsterdam last summer!

Well, just 'cos I missed the last appointment, doesn't mean I'll miss the next one.

Who knows, post-Bush, if the U.S. stops fingerprinting visitors, I might even get to go back to America; then I can meet up with you on your Homeboy-Turf. :)

As for my not having you figured out...

You should know by now (your having me all figured out) that I like to keep an open and fluid mind on all things. I can't abide the idea of fixing a thought on the basis that there was nothing more to learn.

As far as I know, our relationship might be like something out a Robert Ludlum novel. Perhaps you and I met up some years ago, and we arranged to meet here like this and go through a public dialogue that would expose the logical inconsistencies and nonsense of our World governments. And then, maybe one or both of us agreed to have our memories blanked out so that we had no recall of each other...

Or, maybe we both just like talking shite, and are both hopelessly frustrated public speakers who can't find a paying audience... :)

On a side note, I have to call you out on this random nugget that you chose to insert in your last rant as evidence of Bush's perfidy:

Oh, must you?

(And we were having such a nice conversation...)

Look, I'm well aware - and have repeated ad nauseum throughout this thread - that there is clearly no conclusive, damning, incontrovertible and incontestable evidence of any malfeasance on the part of the Bush Administration, in its activities during the "War on Terror".

And I know full well that if Judge Diggs-Taylor's ruling had not been overturned by (the partisan) American Judiciary; then President Bush would no longer be the official President of the U.S.

The point I've kept returning to, and the point you keep doing everything you can to avoid addressing, is whether or not the suspicions of impropriety on the part of the Bush Administration warrant a clearly full and frank criminal investigation.

The Bush Administration suspected, but had no concrete evidence, that Saddam Hussein's Iraq possessed a significant and threatening WMD stockpile.

They used this suspicion to justify starting a War that has cost hundreds of thousands of lives, brought terror and Fear to many millions more, and which was clearly an illegal act under U.S. and International Law.

Now your position is, that unless the kind of concrete, incontrovertible and incontestable evidence that wasn't there to support the Invasion of Iraq, is provided to support the allegations against the Bush Administration, then everyone should just shut up and support the Bush Administration in its efforts to save mankind.

As far as I am concerned, the Presidency of the United States of America is a far more powerful and responsible position in Human Society, than was the Presidency of Iraq under Saddam Hussein.

POTUS has the military and economic power to obliterate thousands and thousands of human lives on a whim.

And POTUS does.

Often.

Therefore, as responsible citizens of an emerging Global Community, it is morally, practically and logically correct that we should hold the office of "The Most Powerful Man in the World", to a far greater standard of probity and responsibility, than we do the half-baked dictators who dominate many of the most blighted sections of our Community.

Yet you consider that the Bush Administration should be hold to a much lower standard.

You consider that the Bush Administration should be allowed to carry on doing whatever it feels it needs to do, until and unless an absolute conviction of their criminal guilt is first obtained.

And you seem to take any suggestion of the fact that "The Most Powerful Man in the World" can influence, bribe, coerce, blackmail and kill anyone he doesn't like the look of, as wild conspiracy theory.

It is thinking like that Foota, that requires you to be intellectually dishonest.

Peace