In Reply To #57

That is your evidence?  Just a memo from some British staffer recording his assumptions?  Surely you are not basing the entire Bush Lied allegation based on this one staffer's opinion?

See, now that would be an example of your cognitive dissonance Foota.

In response to your abject denial of wrong-doing on the Bush Administration's part, I wrote about the obvious absence of hard evidence - and also about how such hard evidence is usually produced as part of a detecting investigation.

Then I wrote how the "most damning" piece (of a whole mountain) of circumstantial evidence, was the "Downing Street Memo".

And then you decided to try and parse of that piece of circumstantial evidence as nothing relevant, since it was merely re-stating the obvious anti-Iraq policy of the United States.

And then, I pointed out that no, in fact the circumstantial evidence provided by the "Downing Street Memo", is of a deliberate attempt on the part of the Bush Administration to "...fix the facts and the intelligence around the policy."

Confounded by that, you resort to first responding to me as though I was presenting the "Downing Street Memo" as the sole evidence of the Bush Administration's lies. Either deliberately or unconsciously (and I would hope for your sake it is the former) ignoring what I had previously written about it being the tip of the iceberg of circumstantial evidence. And then you resort to your ultimate fall-back position, which is to simply keep pointing at the lack of hard evidence.

The kind of hard evidence, in fact, that could (and very, very likely would) only be produced during an independent and objective criminal investigation. And, of course, the kind of hard evidence that, if it was in the public domain, would render this entire conversation null and void; since we would instead be discussing what punishment members of the Bush Administration deserve.

Cognitive dissonance is, essentially, the psychological term for burying your head in the sand, Foota.

Peace