In Reply To #72

Finally, we have earlier history to provide us with a guide. By reading accounts of past lies and deceits carried out by UK PMs and US presidents and various people with them in power(from released cabinet papers, etc) we build up a picture of what goes on in the corridors of power...and that only a fool would trust any of them to so much as lie straight in bed.

There you go. :)

Unfortunately, Foota is involved in some kind of one-man politically-partisan argument; and as well as, uh, clouding his views somewhat (gosh! How polite of me..! :)), it forces him to imagine he is involved in debating two ideologically conflicting positions - just like what he used to do in civics class presumably...

That much is evident from his incessant attempts to put "everyone on the other side" into a single "camp"; i.e. that though you and I, for example, hold idiosyncratic and independent views; because we both view the Bush Administration (Hell - ALL politicians) with deep suspicion and varying degrees of contempt, as far as Foota is concerned, you and I, and our views, are one and the same.

Foota knows that I hold the Clinton Administration in almost as much contempt as the Bush Administration (it would be equal, if the Clinton Administration was still in power). Yet, because he has been instructed that people are "either with us, or against us"; and he knows that the Democrat Party is institutionally opposed to the only organisation that can keep them out of power - the Republican Party: he concludes therefore that I must be on the "same side" as the Democrats - i.e. not on "his" side, the "Side" of the Bush Administration.

See, I think for Foota, this is just another chapter in an ongoing, partisan political debate: Right versus Left; Republican versus Democrat; Reactionary versus Progressive. But, for my part, I don't see this as a political issue, I see it as a social, anthropological issue.

It has nothing to do with Right- or Left-Wing ideologies; it has nothing to do with Conservative or Liberal political inclinations: it has everything to do with the corrupting influence of supreme power, and the venality of men.

In short, it is a human issue, not a political one. But, because Foota has invested so much of his personality (around here, leastways) in supporting the propriety of the actions of the Bush Administration... Well, like the politicians and media moguls, not to mention the SIG's and PAC's, he fears a terminal loss of credibility, should he acknowledge the undoubted and clear stink surrounding this whole debacle.

Of course, the ultimate irony in this entire situation is this:

Foota was and is happy to continue supporting the Invasion and Occupation of Iraq by the United States, even though it was based on, at best, tenuous evidence that turned out to be false. In other words, the accusation that Saddam Hussein had WMD's has turned out to be completely false; there can, in fact, have been no clear evidence that there were WMD's, since, well, they weren't any WMD's.

But, even though there was no compelling or conclusive evidence, Foota believes that it was morally appropriate and the correct thing to do, to illegally and unilaterally invade Iraq, and unleash the four years of Hell that have followed.

Now then, if we turn to the overpowering stench of deceit, lies and corruption at the heart of the Bush Administration, it turns out that Foota (and many others like him), suddenly wants to apply a different standard of evidence and jurisprudence.

The Bush Administration States didn't wait for conclusive and incontrovertible evidence of WMD's before invading Iraq; and Foota didn't require such evidence to support the Invasion.

There is no conclusive or incontrovertible evidence in the public domain that the Bush Administration lied to the American People to fabricate a case for an unnecessary and illegal War; BUT, there is at least as much suspicion and circumstantial evidence of wrongdoing on the part of the Bush Administration in the run-up to the Invasion, as there was of Saddam Hussein's criminal activities.

And whilst Foota is happy to support a War that has caused death, destruction and mayhem throughout Iraq and the Greater Middle East, with no evidence to support the necessity of that War; he is abjectly opposed to just a straightforward criminal INVESTIGATION, which could well find the Bush Administration innocent of all charges. And he justifies that opposition on the basis of the fact that there is currently no incontrovertible, conclusive and undeniable evidence of criminality on the part of the Bush Administration.

Hypocrisy of the highest order, wouldn't you say Sid?

Mind you, I say that there is no evidence of criminality on the part of the Bush Administration, but actually, the actual Invasion of a sovereign nation in contempt of the UN Charter, Geneva Convention & Nuremburg Standards, is utterly clear evidence of illegal activity. The US Constitution enshrines any international treaty signed by America as a part of domestic Law. In other words: breaking an International Treaty is the same as breaking domestic US Law.

We absolutely know that this is, in fact, what the Bush Administration did when they invaded Iraq; therefore they are clearly guilty of criminal wrongdoing.

Add to that, the admission of the Bush Administration of illegal wire-tapping without warrant - on August 17, 2006, Judge Anna Diggs Taylor of the US District Court in Detroit found that President Bush had "undisputedly violated" the First and Fourth Amendments of the Constitution and the 1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act; he broke the law, committed a serious felony and violated the Constitution - and we have clear and ample evidence that the President considers his self above the Law.

Is it not the duty of the People and elected representatives of the United States to thoroughly investigate the crimes of the Executive Branch of their Government, to establish innocence or guilt?

Especially when such an investigation might very quickly lead to the immediate cessation of hostilities in Iraq, and the US Boys being brought back Home.

Or, perhaps we should just follow Foota's example, and trust that politicians don't ever do anything deceitful or self-serving...

What a Happy World that would make!

Peace