[quote=JFitch][color=crimson]I don't think too many people are going to be convinced that the US is really the evil Satan that these men think, but giving them the opportunity to air their grievances in this way can certainly boost morale for those who already share their outlook and want to continue to hurt us any way they can. These people could potentially become cheer leaders for the cause of jihad and stir the passions of those men and women who want to destroy us, possibly even motivating them to action as they watch true martyrs of Islam being put on trial for doing Allah's will.[/color][/quote]

I think you've got to be careful with your hypotheticals here.

Allowing that defendants an opportunity to "air their grievances" from a witness stand doesn't really amount to much, given that most of the World already knows what their "grievances" are in any case.

On the other hand, not being seen to follow the due processes of civilised justice is far more likely to be used as propaganda by Islamists.

They can cite how readily the United States is prepared to drop its much-touted "Freedoms and Liberties", as soon as it comes to making a Muslim a scapegoat.

(I'm not saying that is true, or that I agree with it; just suggesting how it might be presented/received in the Islamic World.)

Think about the rhetoric that came from the U.S. and other Western States following 9/11 and other recent attacks by Islamists. It was all about how the "terrorists would not change our Way of Life; could not/would not cause us to surrender our most precious principles and values" etc.

It isn't solely a question of Justice Being Done; but more about Justice [b]BEING SEEN[/b] to be Done.

The U.S. can't, on the one hand, cite egregious breaches of Human Rights in Iraq and Afghanistan as justification for invading those nations (in violation of International Law, incidentally); and on the other hand, deny those same Human Rights to certain prisoners because it suits a political purpose to do so.

If it is the U.S.'s value system of Freedom, Liberty, Justice for All etc., which gives it the moral authority to tell other nations of the World how they should conduct their affairs, then the U.S.'s own conduct must be seen to be beyond reproach.

This is far less about a handful of Muslims inspiring others around the World to Jihad from the Witness Stand, nor even about the possible martyrdom of Jihadists being executed without being seen to have had a fair trial.

This is actually about the United States and the Western Culture it desires to lead using this opportunity to demonstrate to the World just exactly what Civilised Behaviour is really all about.

Civilised Behaviour means acting with nobility, dignity, fairness and justice, even and [i]especially[/i] when acting in response to the most horrific and tragic provocations.

This [b]*IS*[/b] a Show Trial that we are talking about; but it needn't be the kind of Show Trial we associate with Hitler, Stalin or even McCarthy. Rather this should be a trial that demonstrates clearly to the World the probity, moral authority and dignity of the United States.

And that is something that will be most effectively assured by ensuring the trial is carried out to the highest and most transparently fair standards of jurisprudence and due process.

I am really not at all sure what it is that certain Americans have to fear from such a fair trial; other than perhaps that it shows a lack of confidence in their own social and political institutions.

[face_peace]