Aw hey SomeGuy, read that somewhat lengthy article I posted on Statism. You can correctly infer from that article that I'm no fan at all of Big Government or Socialism.

However, I might presume to disambiguate the difference between Social and Economic policies for you, if you will permit me.

Socialism is a socio-political theory, developed into policies and variously applied by various governments around the World and throughout History, to one degree of benefit or detriment or another.

The theory of Public Sector deficit spending that is most readily identified as Keynesianism is a purely Economic Theory, not a social or political one.

Socialist Theory requires that Government is instituted as an equalising and redistributive force within Society. It is intended to prevent the polarising of wealth and power within Society, and to mitigate the division between the Haves and Have-nots.

It is an entirely noble principle, of course, but one that has proved murderously difficult to put into effect. It's almost as though the Human Condition *COMPELS* us to want to look up or down at our fellow species' members; and any ideology that sets out to make us all equal, is doomed to failure from the outset.

The Economic Theory colloquially known as Keynesianism is purely concerned with the Economic Cycle within a Capitalist Economy. It is not driven by ideology or morality.

It states (rather simply) that when the Private Sector is contracting and consumption of Private Sector goods and services is disappearing, a Capitalist Economy must necessarily fall into a cycle of depression. This because consumers will hoard their personal wealth because of the difficult economic environment; and private investors are unlikely to pour their capital into new or expanding business ventures, when no-one is buying anything.

At this stage, the only entity that is in a position to intervene to reverse the economic decline and prevent or recover from a full-blown depression, is National Government.

A National Government is still capable of raising money through Public Sector borrowing, since it can, in effect, put up the Nation as collateral. A Government is also the only economic entity that is not required to generate rapid or substantial returns on investment - because voters are a lot less demanding than shareholders.

Through the spending of borrowed money on civil infrastructure projects and expanding Public Sector employment, a Government is able to create incomes and jobs where the Private Sector is unable or unwilling to.

However, concomitant with that is the requirement that once the Public Sector has reignited the Economy sufficiently for the Private Sector to reinvigorate itself, the Government *MUST* then withdraw from its investment programme, and use the by-now increasing tax revenues from the Private Sector to repay the money it borrowed during the recession/depression.

If the Public Sector doesn't do this, and in fact contracts at the same time as the Private Sector, then it is bad news all round, as tax revenues will continue to drop off due to the moribund Private Sector, and before too long, nobody will be in a position to invest anything.

So you see Keynesianism is not antithetical to Capitalism, but is actually a vital tool required by Capitalism, due to the innate Boom-Bust characteristics of the Capitalist Economic Cycle.

If we didn't have a Capitalist Economy, we wouldn't need Keynesianism.

And remember also that Capitalism isn't an ideology as such, but is actually a descriptive for a conceptual Economic System where social power and facility is derived from Capital.

Socialism is still Capitalism, it is just a form of Capitalism where public, shared ownership of Capital and the means of production of Capital is mandated over private ownership of same.

[face_peace]