[quote=SomeGuy[PCNC]][color=red]Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Iceland, Ireland, Hungary and now the UK. There's something inherently wrong with the system of doing things over there if all these countries in such high frequency are having debt problems now.

I know as Holyman will tell me the UK is one of the biggest capital markets in the world, and if they are not able to pay their debts or get it under control in a timely manner then something inherent to every state affected so far has been done horribly wrong. Perhaps this whole debt crisis is a reminder that government spending sprees and welfare states is the wrong approach, it's been 26 years or more since the world faced any true sort of recessionary events (the 2001-2002 recession by all accounts was extremely minor) and so far every "solution" proposed by governments to fix the economy has done little if anything and worse is only speeding up the scenarios like we saw in Greece.[/color][/quote]

The magic word here is: PANIC!

Let us be absolutely crystal clear about the situation here (and it baffles me that I keep having to repeat myself, not just here at =PBF=, but more or less everywhere, about what should be abundantly clear to all by now):

The sole reason why most European nations *AND* the United States of America are so deep in debt and running such large budget deficits is...

[b]*BECAUSE THEY ALL BAILED OUT MAJOR BANKS THAT WERE CONSIDERED "TOO BIG TO FAIL!"[/b]

Seriously, forget social spending programs - welfare, health services, Medicaid, public-sector payroll - the amount given by governments in the U.S. and Europe to the *PRIVATE* Banking Sector over the last two years dwarfs everything handed out by those same governments to their citizens over the last decade.

We are talking more than $20 trillion of taxpayer's money at the last count, handed over by governments in the U.S. and Europe, to private banking operations, over a period of about 18 months, with little or no reference to the citizens of those countries.

In effect, what happened was that the governments of the U.S. and Europe transferred the debts of the private, Finance Sector, onto the Public/National Debt.

It is why everything has happened so rapidly. Up to 2008, everyone, including Governments were making hay while the Sun shone. Public debt was low, because Economies were (apparently) booming off the back of a massive Private Sector debt bubble. But as soon as that Debt Bubble went pop, Governments got together and agreed to transfer all the debt that the banks had built up, onto the Public.

The reason why the American Government and European Governments are so in debt is not because of Public Sector spending programs (most Western Governments have "outsourced" all their spending programs to Private Finance Initiatives) that have built up an unsustainable level of debt; but because over the last 18 - 24 months, these same governments took on the debts that the banks had racked up over the previous 5 - 8 years.

It is really, really, *REALLY* important that everyone understands this.

And the reason why this was done was because when Lehman Brothers collapsed in 2008, it very nearly unwound the entire Global Capitalist Economic System. And as a result, the U.S. and European Governments [b]PANICKED[/b].

Problem was that Lehman Brothers' debt was so heavily intertwined with every other major banks' debt, that the Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy/default threatened to unwind the entire system of derivatives and counter-party trading that the Finance Sector had been living high on since the beginning of the new millennium.

Most people have very little idea about just how close the entire Global Economic System came to completely seizing up, in the days and weeks after Lehman Brothers' collapse.

And the World's Governments and Central Bankers knew only and exactly what the major Banks were telling them: "Bail us out, or the Whole System grinds to a halt."

And so our Governments *DID* bail-out the Banks.

And now tax-payers in the U.S. and Europe now carry a huge bulk of the debts run-up by these Bankers.

And this is where it all starts to get really surreal.

Having been put back on their feet by tax-payers in various countries, the Banks then returned to Business As Usual.

And the Business in this case was betting on the failure of certain sovereign governments to be able to re-pay their debts. Yes, that's it: the debts that these governments had taken on to bail-out the Banks that are now predating those governments' potential inability to repay.

It would be laughable, if it weren't so catastrophically tragic.

When "The Markets" start betting on the inability of a Government like, say, Greece's, to repay its debts, it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. Because that Government is seen as a likely defaulter, it finds that the cost of borrowing starts to rise. Its credit-rating is reduced, and so it has to start paying more interest on what "The Market" considers are more risky loans.

And because borrowing becomes more expensive for that Government, its risk of defaulting on the borrowing it already has starts to rise. And so the whole vicious spiral begins to tighten.

And this is where other Governments really begin to PANIC.

Because just as Lehman Brothers' debt was such a dependent part of the Finance Sector's Debt Pyramid; so too is the Sovereign Debt of countries like Portugal, Ireland, Italy and Greece a part of the Sovereign Debt Pyramid.

If Greece defaults on its Sovereign Debt, it will kick off a chain-reaction amongst other National Economies who are relying on Greece to service its debt, so that they in turn can service their own debts.

So we have the conditions for an Economic Contagion that will be truly catastrophic.

Now the real problem is that everyone is stuck on the idea that Government Debt is bad, mm'kay, and that deficit reduction is the be all and end all political response.

Unfortunately, politically-driven Economics is bad Economics.

In a recession, the private individual is not spending any money. This because they have either lost their job, fear losing their job, or are frantically paying down their personal debt, just in case they do lose their jobs.

Because the private individual is only spending on absolute necessities, the Private Sector Economy shrinks, because no-one is buying their goods and services. It is this that fuels the Deflationary Cycle.

The Private Sector cannot expand, because no-one is buying its goods or services. Because the Private Sector cannot expand/is effectively shrinking, more people lose their jobs. More people losing their jobs exerts downward pressure on the wages of those who are still working, meaning that neither the unemployed or employed have any spare money to spend on Private Sector goods or services.

In fact, the only Economic entity that *IS* in a position to spend anything, is the Public Sector; this because Governments can borrow money far more easily than the Private Sector.

In other words: [b]DEFICIT SPENDING CREATES DEMAND WHERE NO OTHER DEMAND CAN BE CREATED[/b].

Demand generates spending. Spending generates Economic activity. Economic activity generates growth. Growth generates jobs. Jobs generate Private Sector Economic activity. Growth in Private Sector Economic activity generates tax revenues. Increased tax revenues reduce deficit spending and repays Sovereign Debt.

And recessions end.

If deficit spending is cut at the same time as Private Sector spending has been cut, there is no way out of the Deflationary Cycle.

Everyone is leaping onto the Deficit Reduction Band Wagon; but nobody is really stopping to ask themselves why it is so important to reduce deficit spending, or if deficit spending is reduced, where *ANY SPENDING AT ALL* will come from.

How can the Private Sector expand, if no-one is spending any money?

Why will people spend money, if the Private Sector is in recession, if Deficit Spending is reduced or eliminated, and people are losing their jobs?

If [b]*NO-ONE*[/b] is spending any money, how can the Recession end? And if the Recession cannot end, what will stop it turning into a full-blown Depression?

We are in a Recession because the Private Finance Sector inflated a huge Debt Bubble that has now exploded.

Governments are in severe deficit, because they transferred the debts of the Private Finance Sector onto Public Finance Balance Sheets.

Sovereign Economies are now facing default, because the bailed-out Private Finance Sector is now predating the significantly increased risk of Sovereign Economies defaulting on their borrowing.

And incidentally, the United States is only not staring down quite the same abyss as many European Governments, because it can service its own debts by printing more of its own currency.

But the long term effect of printing more and more U.S. Dollars is that the value of the U.S. Dollar declines due to inflation. Too much of that, and the U.S. Dollar loses its role as the World's Reserve Currency (the Currency in which debts are settled). And if and when the U.S. can no longer service its debts by printing more of its own Currency, it will face the same dynamic as many European Governments are today.

Only it will be in a much worse position, since America's debts are astronomically higher than all of the European Nations' combined.

[face_peace]