In Reply To #90

In Reply To #89

Now THERE is the million dollar queston!

I dunno.

Yes, you do.

You just said it.

You want to be "Great for morale".

Given the nature of *OUR* association Spandex, it is clear that you enjoy participating in collective activities. As the Lead Moderator, you exercise your excellent Team Leadership qualities, by subconsciously and consciously influencing the behaviour of the other Moderators.

Rather than Leading by instruction and order: you Lead by Example.

You are not a Leader who invites or creates Followers: you are a Leader who Create Other Leaders.

This is an OUTSTANDINGLY good quality for a Team Leader to possess in today's project-orientated job-market.

The particular skill or occupation of the members of team is irrelevant to a good Team Leader. The Team Leader's job is to ensure a successful outcome or the smooth operation of the collective endeavour the Team are engaged in.

Having observed you in action, and given the context we're in, I'd say you would be better suited to leading an operational team, rather than a project or strategic one. I suspect you're better at keeping things running smoothly, than "Getting The Job Done!".

It's Horses for Courses Spandex.

Operational and Programme/Project methods are pretty much homogenised across the Business World; and increasingly in the Public and Charity sectors.

Good Team Leaders are required for operations and projects in all three of those work sectors. You can start whittling down what you want to do with your Life by choosing between commercial, social or charitable work.

You know what the pay-scales are that are associated with each sector; so you already know what kind of lifestyle you could afford, depending on your choice.

Start by choosing what kind of a lifestyle you want for your own future. Remember, things aren't just measured in terms of raw cash wealth these days: social and environmental respectability count for increasingly more too.

So working out whether you want to work in the Public or Charitable Sectors, is just a question of working out how much of your social conscience you want to heal. And if the answer is none or little, or "Better to get one's own house in Order, before diverting energy to sorting out others'", then it's probably a good idea to stick with the Commercial Sector for a while.

You can always move from the Commercial Sector to the Public and/or Charitable Sectors at a later date. In fact, movement between these sectors, in this "Age of the Triple-Bottom Line", is increasingly fluid.

So let's say you want to be an Operational Team Leader, somewhere in the Commercial Sector.

What you would do next, is to focus your attention on an area of the Commercial Sector that has, or could interest you. Having identified the area, you focus down on a particularly Industry or Service Provider that further interests or engages you.

Whatever that is or could be.

Having focused your Vision on the kind of role you would be comfortable in, for now, you can then use your undoubted inter-personal skills, Power of Intuition, and ability to learn quickly, to train and prepare yourself for the role you have identified as ideal.

Find out what the required level of understanding for a good Team Leader is, in any particular industry or service. The best way to do that is to gain a general experience in the different craft and methods you will need to understand.

Remember: you won't need to become an expert in any particular skill or method, because *YOUR* Skill is Team Leader, and you're already an expert in that (though you might not have fully realised that aspect of your Self yet). All you need to do is get a general understanding of the skills, methods and roles of those Team Members you will eventually lead: and leave the technical stuff to the Experts - it's what they're there for.

Depending on the Industry or Service you select, it'll probably take you about three to five years to get a general understanding of how things are done, collectively. Then, you'll be able to put to good use your Team Leading abilities, to help the Team get things done better.

Collectively. :)

You gotta go with the flow Spandex: Play to Your Strengths.

You're clearly an excellent Team Leader, with a superlative and comprehensive CV - in the shape of the =PBF= Archives - to boot. It might not be a CV in a form that many employers will accept - for the moment :) - but you *DO* have clearly evident Team Leadership skills that I know many organisations could and would fully appreciate.

As and when you figure out what kind of direction you want to steer your work life in for the next few years, drop me a PM, and I'm sure I can help connect a few more dots for you. :)

Peace