I am in the process this week of delivering a bit of a breech-birth for the Bank I'm working with. But the prognosis is looking very positive at the moment.

Anticipating that all goes well (as is my want :) ), I'm quietly hopeful that the seed I'm planting at this wonderful Japanese banking corporation, will grow into something that will give me a lot more personal freedom within 3-5 years.

Having assured myself that Mother and Baby are definitely going to survive the procedure - and not be the least worse of for it - I'm able to start relaxing my focus a little more. Though things are coming to an apex-point with the former Holywoman and Holyboy 3.0.

I'm sufficiently liquid now to engage counsel to do the Heavy-Lifting, and move things to a swift conclusion. Will let you know how that gets along.

And lastly, I stumbled across £500 I didn't know I had today, so I'm sitting here with a fat spliff and an immeasurably large vodka and diet-coke, and I thought... You know what..? It's been a loooong Time since I've properly engaged with my extraordinary friends at the Original Post.

So here: Engagement.

Since January 22nd, 2020, when SomeGuy created his damn [b]"China Coronavirus aka WE ALL GONNA BE DEAD!!!"[/b] thread: pretty much Everything has gone to shit.

I would say that 90% of my immediate friends - including all of you - has been through some truly awful tragedy since then. And incredibly, a good third of those have been through *MORE* than just one terrible event.

I remember when I chided you guys in that thread, for barracking about COVID-related deaths, at the time that Junior was going through that horrible, horrible period of grief. I never imagined how that kind of Experience would reach so many of the rest of us.

And Barcelona. For fuck's sake. I mean. Just don't know how you had the strength to get through all of that.

Honestly mate. You know I'm not one to blow smoke up peoples' arses. I tell it, eloquently, Exactly How It Is.

There is not a single person in my wide and varied acquaintances of half-a-century that has even come close to demonstrating the Strength and Fortitude you have shown.

I mean it. Don't ever underestimate just how strong your Spirit is. Fuck's sake. No wonder you need all that gear to try and harness you to everyone else's wavelength.

I thought my Mum was tough. How she coped with the death of my brother. My Dad too.

But Man, Barca. You are *OLD SCHOOL*. Proper Original fucking Gangster.

When I've sorted Everything out, I'm going to buy you this sculpture, ship it to you, and have it nailed to your House-Boat:

[img] https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/c/c9/Charging_Bull_statue.jpg[/img]

Respect, sir.

I don't want this to turn into a Roll-Call, 'cos I'm bound to forget someone, and honestly, there's a Time and a Place for irreverence... And I'm not sure that this is it.

I just must communicate my most sincere and heartfelt sympathy to everyone here. And recognise that...

Shit suddenly got Real.

For the most part, we've all been together now for getting on for the best part of two decades. This year is the Original Post's 10th Anniversary.

And for much of those two decades, we've been... Getting to know one another...

And we have been... Getting to Understand One and Other.

I always had a Purpose for the OP. I don't do anything that isn't purposeful, or at least, doesn't align with my Purpose.

I'm fairly sure I never made a secret of my fascination with anthropology. And I know for a fucking fact that I never made a secret of my more or less complete contempt for human sociology and politics.

But less anyone thinks I've lured them into a [url=https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panopticon]Panopticon[/url] under false pretences, I will very quickly state the following:

I Love each and every one of you like I Love my own Family.

Every. Single. One. Of. You.

That's why you're here. No other reason.

Those who didn't feel at least a little mutual affection have departed. And I'm proud to say that there has only been one forced departure in a decade of entirely unregulated interaction.

When I say I had a Purpose for the OP, I mean only that I was curious to see what could happen with a disparate bunch of people from the Internet.

On the Whole, I think it's been rather successful.

It's a core part of some of my Elevator-Pitches that I've never had any kind of Social Media account, except a very, very low profile on LinkedIn (created c. 2000).

[BTW: feel free to Reach Out, if you can locate me on LinkedIn. Unless you're Hoff, or already linked to Hoff on LinkedIn, I'd be delighted to plug you in to my Network.

@Hoff: sit tight, my inestimable friend, your Time will come!  :-$ ]

...Because I haven't ever needed one.

No Social Media platform has ever offered me any kind of networking functionality that I didn't already have in my Life.

I know precisely how to sift valuable data from the torrent of bullshit information streams our lives are inundated with.

It isn't difficult.

You just have to bypass your [url=https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Confirmation_bias]Confirmation Bias[/url] Circuit.

Job Done.

So fuck your bullshit, consent-manufacturing propaganda streams of crap. You can keep pouring all the Gold Dust away because you are too ignorant to understand how overwhelmingly the Tide Has Turned.

But you are only emphasising your own nakedness.

Present Company excepted, of course.

I've got no Time for such weak gruel first time around. I certainly don't entertain the thought of eating it after somebody else has regurgitated it.

Point being that I'd no more rely on an algorithm-driven news feed, than I would rely on a magnate-driven one.

So fuck your endless "News Feeds": you're killing your Journalists and Reporters.

And fuck you telling me what shit I don't need that I should buy with "money" you want me to borrow to buy it with.

And fuck right off with your getting involved with how I relate to other Human Beings.

What do you take Me for?

Cunts.

The Original Post is the only Network Hub I'll ever need.

Seems solid enough to me.

Got a Network Wheel to Invent around It.

(Which ties in with work. And if you're interested in Exploring that Purpose with me: take another look at and engage with the [url=http://www.theoriginalpost.net/Forum/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=5725]"Digital Transformation"[/url] thread.]

Back to Understanding One and Other.

[url=https://www.16personalities.com/enfj-personality]I'm a Myers-Briggs ENFJ Personality[/url].

It's what I do. Who I Am. Here.

I'm 2% of the Human Population. There are at least another 150 million Human Beings on the Planet with my kind of Personality.

I hope my Personal Record, notarised here at the OP, demonstrates that I have no Messianic Pretensions.

I know People who are better at doing the things that I can do. They're still in my Network, and I'm still Learning from them.

And, I understand very acutely that, We Are All In This Together.

We're *WAAAAY* beyond women and children first here. It's all gone rather to shit, and either we all pull through this, or none of us do.

The definition of "alarmism" that is being queried in your mind at this point, is very much a definition of tolerance for Fatalism, of one tone or another.

"Oh it'll never happen in our Lifetime" is about as much as the data will plausibly let you get away with these days.

But the Kids certainly won't let you get away with it.

Because "it" will almost inevitably happen in their Lifetimes. And we have educated them to the degree where they Understand this much more substantially than we do.

So, what is we EFNJ's can do?

We can see how the other 15 varieties of "Personality Circuitry" are interacting with each other.

On the Whole, the Current State Finding is: they are not working well together.

So, Job #1 when *ALL* of our Lives are at stake (we can dispense with the "Selfishness vs. Selflessness Quandary from here on in), is to get us all working well together.

We don't really have much Time left to spend quarrelling about how we should approach things.

Best to Press On, Fail Fast, and Fix-on-Fail where necessary.

Now. It seems to me that what We have achieved here at the OP over a decade, is to demonstrate that seemingly disparate individuals (alright, not *THAT* disparate: but we do have Hoff to edge our Grade Curve upwards!), can...

Well... I wouldn't presume to name it, but can we go with, "See Through Our Differences" as a Place-Holder?

Isn't it the case?

I mean, obviously Foota and I took Front & Centre with the sociological and political bollocks.

The successful outcome of which is not that either Foota or I compromised one single inch in our views.

In fact, with the opportunity to wash away a lot of the rot, we have both been able to strengthen our Core Beliefs.

I can say without the slightest hesitation that I wouldn't be able to command the kind of attention I can these days, if I hadn't spent 15 years sparring with Foota.

Point Being:

Ideological Supremacy is a way to pass Time that we can no longer afford to engage in.

All that matters now is Collective Survival.

Let's quickly talk Timelines.

Anyone here want to bid 500 years or more before Humanity has to worry about changing its fundamental behaviours and attitudes towards the Natural System it depends upon for its own Survival?

I'll give you 1,000-1 odds on any form of bet you care to make.

150 - 350 years..? Meh... Too vague and sophomoric. Anyone prepared to bet on that horse needs a punch in the face.

So let's talk about 150 years or less.

Jeanne Calment of France was born in 1875, and she died in 1997, aged 122 years old.

So if you need something to frame the following with, consider that the first human being who will ever live to 150 years old, has already been born.

A'ight. So we're into odds of irreversible Human Extinction, within 150 years. Anyone want to run the book on that? I'll underwrite any bet.

Or maybe I am just an Alarmist.

But, you know, it's like those fire and evacuation alarms they used to drill us with in the Office Space before Covid: sooner or later, one of those alarms was going to be real.

And nothing was ever going to be the same again.

Thank fuck.

'Cos let's face it: it hasn't been a picnic, has it?

Not for the overwhelming majority of people you are currently sharing a leaky Life-Raft with.

And to tune you further - and hopefully more poignantly - to the analogy, I should emphasise the following:

Most of those whom you are now sharing a Life-Raft with, have *PLENTY* more individual and cultural Experience of enduring incredible hardships, than you fat fucks.

When you finally get it into your thick skulls that your firepower is reducing rather than enhancing the chances of Collective Survival, you will, entirely voluntarily, and with a deep and remorseful understanding of the reasons why, set aside your weapons.

And may God have mercy on your souls when you do.

After we get over that little trauma, we will actually be able to use the Military for the Reason It Exists: to Defend Us All.

All of the Militaries.

All dedicated to using their incredible logistic and command-and-control capacities and functionalities, to save All of Humanity from its currently unavoidable Collective Fate.

Make Sense?

Any Human Being that has been through basic military training and experienced (even temporarily) the primacy of decision making over political indecision and psychological frailty, understands the effectiveness of Clear Objectivity.

Call it the "Thousand Yard Stare", if you will.

In English: service personnel in militaries around the World have far more in common with each other, than the branded herds of humans they are pledged to defend.

All their Political Leaders are wankers, and all the so-called citizens they defend, lazy fools.

Ask anybody serving in a military capacity today who'd they'd rather have a drink with, a pontificating, pointless, pale imitation of a Citizen, pretending to know stuff about shit they clearly know fuck-all about?

Or someone else who endures the same kind of work-related crap they do every day?

Well... Which would you choose?

So can we all stop wasting their Pledges on counter-productive Hazing Ceremonies, and give them a clear and concise Mission Objective they might just, Collectively, stand a chance of achieving:

Save Us All.

(Including yourselves - for any of the waverers...)

Or...

You know..

We could leave things the way they currently are, and, uh, just hope that Everyone eventually gets around to, umm, agreeing how things should be done...

('Cos... You know...Humanity has got a *GREAT* Track Record of doing that..!)

Look...

This isn't about massive and shockingly involuntary upheaval in Everyone's Lives.

Well... I mean... It is... 'Cos, you know, Environment... Clock-Ticking... Science and all that...

But I mean it isn't about suddenly all dropping off-grid, unplugging from "The Matrix", or rearranging our Lives in a deranged and chaotic fashion.

That's precisely the sort of behaviour that capsizes shitty little Life-Rafts like ours; and I should point out, precisely the kind of attitude that lead to us being in our current predicament.

Little Humility required, n'est pas? (Au revoir, Francois.)

No... What I mean is that this is most certainly *NOT* a Kool-Aid moment.

Quite the Opposite.

Any sudden panic, and we'll accelerate the likelihood of things going irretrievably to shit.

We need to Get a Grip.

Fuck's sake...

Squawking like ducks...

I hope my Point hasn't been lost in that Reverie.

Unless Human Society sorts out its differences, there will not be any Human Society left in which differences can be Experienced.

We need to get to grips with Our Differences, or we will no longer have any.

Make sense?

Matter of Timing then, isn't it?

Yeah, sure, we know we're going to have to do it at some point... But *REALLY*? Now?!

Can't it wait?

Uh-huh.

Now think about the adolescent nature of that, and relate it to the behaviours of our current human "Leadership".

Doesn't fill you with Hope, does it?

That's fine.

Hope is something that grows from within: t isn't given.

The Hope a seedling has beneath the forest canopy doesn't come from the promise of great fruit and bounty, from those who see only a potential competitor for that abundance.

The Hope a seed can use to move a Mountain (if it wills), comes from its Desire to Become the Grandest Vision of Who It Believes Its Self to Be.

Which is pretty strong fuel, if you can recalibrate your Circuitry to run on it.

So.

There you go.

That's what I'm about when I'm Engaged, and but that you knew it (even you lurkers, You...), you're Engaged to Me.

Like what the Beautiful Queen currently sitting at my Left-side is.

And if you don't all come to the Wedding, then you are all cunts.

But I'll Love you Forever.

:>_