Hey Steel,

Look, sorry I didn't get on-line before that "Santa..." thread was closed, otherwise I'd have come in with something that would hopefully have mitigated some of your feelings about what Wunder was posting.

It wouldn't have had anything to do with being British either: neither Wunder nor I (nor, actually, many other Brits these days), put any faith or store in the concept of Nationalism, let alone "British-ness" (whatever that means...).

Some of the other posters in that thread (before it got locked) pointed out that Wunder was playing a "/b/"-style trolling game - but I suspect you knew that. I feel that what you wanted to hear was an expression of the same kind of emotional reaction to that horrific incident that you had: and I would certainly have provided that in the thread if I'd had the chance; and have no hesitation in providing it in this PM.

These incidents, and people's reaction to them - whether empathic or perverse - have nothing to do with National or Cultural identity; and I think it lessens and distracts from the attention we must pay to them, if we bring such abstract or sociological concepts into them.

The event in question is, above all, a [b]*HUMAN*[/b] tragedy, and as such, affects each and everyone of us, regardless of where we live in the World.

Now if Wunder is - as he appears to be - so nihilistic and cynical that he must process his reaction to the event the way that he did, then so be it. If his written response was a crime against decency, morality and/or Love; then it is perhaps worth considering that it is a crime that is [b]*ALSO*[/b] a punishment.

If Wunder is so far down the road of nihilism and cynicism that he can neither feel the shared grief that we all can, or is incapable of expressing any degree of empathy with those who suffer - directly and indirectly - as a result of an incident like this...

Then that is to his sorrow - and perhaps we should feel sympathy for him too; perhaps more so, because his status as a victim is completely unknown to his self.

There is a Peace that we are all searching for, a Peace that sadly, the individual who committed the tragedy we are all thinking about could not find. It is a Peace that you and I can feel is there, and which we look to bring into our lives every day. And it is a Peace that someone like Wunder, perhaps, doesn't even know exists.

And it is, thankfully, a Peace that the victims who died in this tragedy, are now guaranteed to have returned to.

Peace