[quote=Raider624924236][color=crimson]I as well appreciate your intelligence, I just feel that sometimes the way you express your opinions come off as anti-american. I understand that you feel its the politicians fault, but the way that comes out on here, makes it really hard to tell sometimes.[/color][/quote]

I think it is one of those major differences between European and American attitudes Raider: the way we feel about our politicians, and what they represent.

In most places in Europe, certainly in Western Europe, politicians are treated with pretty much universal contempt. At [b]*BEST*[/b], they are seen as a necessary evil; but more usually, as a blithering waste of time, causing far more problems than they solve, and costing us all far more money than they are worth.

Therefore, rhetorically going after politicians is pretty much a matter of course. And that pretty much goes for everyone, not just people like me who hold certain "views" about political systems and nationalism overall. You know, for the better part it is: Love the Country; hate the politicians.

What is pretty much unique to the United States however, is this idea that if you criticise the political leadership and its policies, many Americans take it as a personal criticism.

Have a political discussion with a French person, or an Italian or German, and criticise their politicians, and there is a good chance the only response will be a correction, because you're not criticising those politicians [b]*ENOUGH*![/b]

Seriously, I talk politics (as you can probably imagine) with people from all over Europe, and never once have I had a criticism of a politician or a government's policies received as a personal attack. Hell, I work alongside several people who are serving members of the main three political parties in the UK (New Labour, Conservative and Liberal Democrat), and even they don't take my criticisms of their Party and its leadership personally. Usually they take it as an opportunity to hone their skills in defending their Party's policies, as though they were being interviewed by the media or some such.

But as you know, it's a different story with a lot of you guys on the other side of The Pond.

Look at the Three Stooges: they've appointed themselves as Champions of the political status quo in the United States; and to criticise the Bush Administration is to criticise them and the United States (as an abstract nationalist entity) directly.

Whatever else I am, I'm very much Pro-Human. I don't distinguish between people on nationalistic or ethnic lines. I've enjoyed spending a lot of time in the United States, since I first worked in Atlanta during the Olympics in '96, and through a two year relationship with a girlfriend who was a native to West Virginia.

It is only the highest echelons of the American political establishment I despise, with a vengeance.

You know, maybe if we're still all here in 20 years time, and the axis of power has shifted to Beijing, or Delhi, or Brasilia; and if we then have three or more other stooges all trying to convince us that the policies of the Chinese, Indian or Brazilian governments are the only sensible choices for Humanity: then I'll be being accused of being Anti-Chinese, Anti-Indian or Anti-Brazilian.

I took care at the beginning of my last post to you, to differentiate my opinion of you Raider, from my opinion of Foota and SomeGuy. You are so much more honest than either of them can ever hope to be. As and where your beliefs coincide with the prevailing consensus in D.C., then you'll say so; and where they don't, you'll also say so. It's clear that you will speak your Truth, whether it happens to be the same as the Bush Administration, or runs directly counter to it.

Foota and SomeGuy hide behind the charge of "Anti-Americanism", when they run out of their own arguments and the ability to defend the Party Line.

It's the same with the charges of anti-Semitism in relation to Israeli policies.

Truth is, it doesn't really matter whether I'm Anti-American or Anti-Semitic: it is as irrelevant to an intellectual debate about the actions and policies of the U.S. and Israeli governments as their Pro-American and Pro-Israeli attitudes.

Larry and Curly accuse me of being Anti-American or Anti-Semitic, when they can no longer honestly or intellectually defend the actions and policies of those two governments.

Looking at the situation more positively though, it seems that the Three Stooges really are the last remaining representatives of a dwindling attitude in American politics. In my view, more Americans are becoming like you, and less like them. And I think we have George W. Bush for finally blowing open the whole charade, and exposing the fact that the Emperor really has no clothes.

The United States of America remains a strong culture of strong-minded, strong-willed, and for the better part, decent and generous people. As I had cause to mention to Foota in a recent PM: with the challenges that Humanity faces right now, I think the [b]*PEOPLE*[/b] of the U.S. are better equipped to lead Humanity to a better, brighter tomorrow, than say the people of China or Brazil (the Indians might be able to do it though...).

But to do it, the infatuation with the political elite that Americans have had for some time must end, as must the automatic association of politicians and patriotic pride.

Patriotism, as I'm sure you know, is the belief in and Love of one's country; not blind obedience and deference to a country's government or its political leaders.

For better and for worse, a lot of the [b]*PEOPLE*[/b] of the World look to the [b]*PEOPLE*[/b] of the United States for direction and leadership. It is the American [b]*PEOPLE*[/b] who inspire; not the American governments that have held the citizens of the U.S. hostage to fortune for so long.

I'll continue to try and crack open the façade of American politics, and shine Light into the sordid and corrupt recesses of the American political establishment, for as long the U.S. remains the pre-eminent power in the World.

But rest assured that the Time and Energy *I* put in to doing that, is not born of hatred or antipathy; but from a genuine sense that if any Human Society has the collective will and self-belief to correct much of what is wrong with Human Society, it is America.

The World needs to hear more from Americans like you and MadCat; and much, much less from the likes of the Three Stooges.

Peace