In Reply To #70

It is the legitimacy of the entire institution of the current Iraqi government, as it "governs" today, that is not accepted by the majority of Iraqis.:)

Implying that the Iraqis would prefer some other sort of government institution?  What do you think they prefer?

- Baathist tyranny?

- Shia Theocracy?

- Sunni Sharia Law?

Well, based on pure majority, it would be Shia Theocracy, wouldn't it?

But why did you miss out this option:

The Government that the Iraqi People voted for, WITHOUT US control and domination, and which would insist that the US withdraw all its troops from Iraq.

I will keep saying it; as flawed, corrupt, and sectarian the current Iraqi government is today, it is still the most legitimate (in terms of representative participation) then virtually all Muslim and Arab governments on the planet.

No, once more, you're wildly missing the point.

It is the US OCCUPATION OF IRAQ that de-legitimises any attempt at Iraqi self-governance.

YOU may see the current Iraqi "government" as more legitimate than the dictators and despots atop most other Arab Middle Eastern governments; but that is ONLY because of your blind support for the US Occupation of Iraq.

But Iraqis see the Iraq government as no more legitimate than any other Arab government maintained in power by the United States (Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, the Emirates, etc.).

That *YOU* get all your "News" and information from Rupert Murdoch's media empire.

Uh....Murdoch did not conduct the poll Holyman.  The Telegraph just reported the results of the poll.  Did the BBC, Guardian, Counterpunch, Prison Planet, or The Independent report these poll results?  If not, why?

I'll have to check Prison Planet out one of these days - I've never read it, but if it gets up your nose, it must be worth a look.

And it was the Times that created a rosy, editorial interpretation of those latest poll results, not the Telegraph.

And to answer your question: probably because the readership of those publications is nowhere near as gullible or wilfully naïve as those who rely on Rupert Murdoch for their news.

Peace