In Reply To #19

In Reply To #9

Welcome back Holyman.  Looks like you had some fun, while I have been busy changing diapers.

Aww, come off it Foota, I know YOU must still be at the stage where the look in her eyes totally masks the unpleasantness of anything coming out the bottom end of The Miracle. :)

You're just trying to sound like the put-upon Dad, so that the rest of the guys around here won't realise that your World has just turned all pink, blue and fluffy... ;-)

But thanks for the WB: we certainly did have some fun. Unfortunately, Holyboy hasn't yet developed my passion for engines, so he was a little bit wary driving the speed-boat and jet-bikes, but start 'em young I say. If he's going to be able to keep me in the manner I require for my dotage, he'll have to get some over-paid job like a powerboat-racer.

I'm only thinking of his future, and how easily he'll be able to support me. :)

Were you in Turkey during the elections?  If so, how was the mood?

Arrived slap bang in the middle of it all Foota.

Interesting Times.

I should point out quickly that I was in the South West of Turkey, at a place called Marmaris, which is one of Turkey's oldest and most established Mediterranean Ports. It was actually one of the main staging points for the forces of Suleiman the Magnificent (etc.), when he sent his forces to lay siege to the Fortress of the Hospitaller Knights of St. John the Baptist - the last of the great Crusader forces of Warrior Monks - at the Great Siege of Malta in 1565.

Nowadays though, it is indistinguishable from any other Mediterranean resort, be it in Turkey, Greece, Italy, France or Spain.

As such, it might as well be in a different country, certainly as far as the Tourists are concerned. As far as the locals are concerned - and they ARE concerned - there really is no point even discussing any alternative to secular integration with Europe and the Rest of the World. And they all know full well that any lurch towards Islamism in Ankara and the East of Turkey, would devastate their livelihoods.

The election results themselves, when they came, certainly cast a shadow over those of the locals with an eye on them, but it was more a sense that the problem had just been postponed, since the issue of the Presidency still remains.

It is at the Presidential, not the Parliamentary level, that the main conflict between Islamist and Secular politicians is taking place. The aim of the Parliamentary elections was to hopefully return a differently constituted parliament, which might then be able to break the deadlock over the Presidency.

As it was - and entirely unsurprisingly in corruption-ridden Turkey - the results almost universally favoured the incumbent, who was obviously in a much better position to secure their power from whomever was trying to take it.

I first visited Turkey in 1992 and 1993, and I felt then a real surge of optimism amongst the Turkish. The Cold War had just ended, and with it, so ended Turkey's position as the most likely battleground between Soviet and NATO forces, if the Cold War had ever become Hot. There was a huge sense of relief in the West Coast resorts of Turkey, and with tourism being very attracted to Turkey's extremely cheap prices, the optimism expressed seemed very well placed.

15 years later, I find Turkey having a discussion about Secularism versus Islamism, as though Mustafa Kamel Ataturk had never existed.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ataturk

Enough Arab refugees have made it to and integrated with ethnic Turks on the West Coast, to spread the horror stories of the relentlessness of Islamist rhetoric, when tied to issues of Government and Society.

There being no rational basis for Islamist rhetoric, means that it doesn't use logic to support its position, but moral subjectivity, on which it feels it has a monopoly.

Therefore, no matter what common sense and logical arguments are used to oppose the - frankly populist - rhetoric of the Islamist politicians, they just keep coming back with subjective moral imperatives, which they claim are the cause of Turkish weakness.

No matter how strong a rational and logical case the secular modernists - whose real power-base is in Istanbul - put forward, it will only be supported by the educated middle classes. The Islamists on the other hand, appeal to the minority Turkish Elite - who have long been the reason for Turkey's appalling record on Human Rights - and simultaneously, to the far more numerous working and serf classes in the Interior and East of Turkey.

The simple fact that Turkey is having the Islamism versus Secularism dialogue at the Presidential Level, is taken by most as a sign that the rot has already set in, and it is now just a matter of Time before Islamist "Moralists" gain a majority over the Secular Modernists.

Pretty depressing actually, but fuck it, I was on Holiday. :)

To be real, a future Iraqi state must be perceived by Iraqis as legitimate. But ANYTHING the United States, as a foreign invader and occupier, creates, endorses or assists, automatically thereby loses its legitimacy.

"Automatically" loses its legitimacy?  Why?

Because the United States is seen by virtually the entire population of Iraq, as an occupying military forces that has completely destroyed their lives and their State, and unleashed Anarchy into each and every one of their lives.

However unintended the consequences of its Invasion of Iraq by the United States, those consequences are being felt in a very negative way, by every Iraqi, every other Arab nation in the region, and pretty much the entire Middle East, right up as far - I now discover - as Turkey.

However much Americans living safe and sound at home, might like to remind every Iraqi how much better off they are, now that Saddam is gone; those Iraqis not yet dead or fled the country understand fully the Reality on the Ground.

And the blame for that Reality - whether you like it or not Foota - is laid fully and squarely, at the door of The White House.

The United States has dropped below Zero Legitimacy in Iraq and the Middle East; it is now well into Negative Legitimacy. Anything it touches, anything it seeks to endorse, becomes the immediate target of the indefinable and raging forces arrayed against it in Iraq.

Iraqis and Iraq Organisations lives in Fear of being offered the poisoned chalice of "US Approval" or assistance; the acceptance of which would invite immediate death and destruction.

Want to see something explode in Iraq? Stick a "Made or Approved by the United States of America" sticker on it, retire to a safe distance, and wait about 5 minutes.

That you can't see that this is the case Foota, is pretty much the core blockage about this whole situation.

America endorses a representative governing structure based on Iraq's demographics.  Are you saying that the majority Shia population are going to disagree with that power sharing simply because America supports it too?

That is EXACTLY what I am saying.

More pertinently: that is EXACTLY WHAT HAS HAPPENED.

I find it hard to believe that millions of Shia and Kurds are going to work against their own interests (democratically and legitimately gaining majority control of Iraq) simply because America shares the same interests.

Candour at last: you "find it hard to believe".

I knew that Girl could melt your Heart. :)

Alright, let me see if I can ease your understanding of the situation.

You talk about the Shia and Kurds' "own interests".

What do you suppose, right now, those interests are?

You know, not long ago, your primary interests were what was going on in the World, what was going in your Country, what was going on at work. Now, your interests are a lot more immediate - they are a lot closer to Home.

The Pink Fluffy Bunny Rabbit, or the Blue Fluffy Bunny Rabbit? The Orange One?

But still, in your leisure, where you feel you have the Time, you consider your longer term interests. What is your daughter going to be like when she grows up? What will she make of the World she finds her Self in? What kind of World will she find her Self in?

And here, you are able to use your not-inconsiderable intellect and education, and your ability to communicate with and make sense of the World as it is now, to try to imagine what kind of a World Hannah might find her Self in.

In your considered opinion, a World Society based on the same Enlightenment Principles that the United States is founded upon, is an ideal model for Peace, Prosperity, and Security.

That is also my opinion, btw. :)

And also in your opinion, you believe that militarism - as multilateral as possible, but unilateral if necessary - is the primary method for achieving such a World.

That isn't, as you know, my opinion.

But isn't it a delight, to discuss such ideas and opinions, in the leisurely and comfortable company of one's peers? Isn't it a sheer joy to exercise one's intellectual and academic gifts, with fellows of similar stature?

And given such quality discourse, how could anyone argue with its conclusions?

Another brandy Foota?

Why would anyone hold a different opinion to the one that you and *I* hold about the creation of a World Society in comport with American Society?

Well, might I suggest that whilst it is obvious, to us, where the Iraqi People's long-term interests lay; the short-term interests of the Iraqi People require SO much more of their attention than yours and mine do, that they may not have a lot of contemplating Time leftover for the longer-term considerations, and how their lives (or what is left of them) fit into the overall Global context of an Emerging World Society.

Might I further suggest that when your primary and frequently sole short-term interest, is staying alive for the next hour, EVERY hour of your Existence; you may not have much energy or inclination leftover to consider, "The Bigger Picture".

One Third of the Iraqi Population has had to leave their country since the US invaded.

Countless and uncounted numbers of Iraqis have died, since the US decided to invade Iraq.

Those Iraqis still in Iraq, and still alive, live in daily terror of death from one source or another, because the United States CHOSE to invade Iraq.

Now I'm sorry to have to do this to you Foota, but I'm going to anyway.

Imagine how you would feel, God forbids it, if anything terrible happened to Hannah.

How's your intellect going to cope under the weight of those feelings? How effectively will you be able to exercise your rational faculty? How sensible will your choices be?

Will you still even feel like living?

There's no need for you to answer those questions Foota, I just wanted to try and help you feel something.

Because if you can feel it, it might help you to believe why millions of Shia and Kurds could work against their "own" long-term interests, whenever the United States of America tells them what those long-term interests are.

It's not about agreeing with them; it isn't about justifying the actions they may take in blood-curdling fits of revenge; and it isn't an attempt to rationalise why their object of hatred is the United States.

It is merely to point out that it is so.

Peace