Damn...

I should actually read your links before I swat them aside, shouldn't I?

But then, you can't have read it thoroughly before you linked to it either, can you?

Question 1:

Overall, how would you say things are going in your life these days? Would you say things are very good, quite good, quite bad or very bad?

8% reply "Very Good"; 31% "Quite Good"; and 60% either "Quite Bad" or "Very Bad". Almost an exact turnaround from 2 years previously.

Question 3:

What is your expectation for how things overall in your life will be in a year from now?

12% reply "Much Better"; 23% "Somewhat Better"; and more than 60% "About the Same" or worse.

Question 4:

What is the single biggest problem facing your life these days?

Security issues - 48%; Political/military issues - 13%; Economic and social issues - 39%; NOBODY reported having "No problem" or "No opinion", unlike the 40% who felt that way in 2005.

Question 6:

Now thinking about how things are going, not for you personally, but for Iraq as a whole, how would you say things are going in our country overall these days?

36% reply "Quite..." or "Very Good"; 66% reply evenly split between "Quite Bad" or "Very Bad".

Question 7: 62% of those questioned replied that the current situation is worse or no better than it was before the US Invasion in spring 2003

Question 10: Only 22% of Iraqis feel it was absolutely right that the US invaded Iraq; 53% felt it was somewhat or absolutely wrong.

Question 13:

How effective or ineffective have the reconstruction efforts been in the area where you live since the war of spring 2003?

67% reply that efforts have been quite or very ineffective, or not made at all.

And check this one:

Question 16:

I am going to name a number of organizations. For each one, please tell me if you have a great deal of confidence, quite a lot of confidence, not very much confidence, or none at all?

US and UK occupation forces:

30% of those questioned replied that they had "Not Very Much Confidence" in US and UK occupation forces; and 52% replied that they has NO CONFIDENCE AT ALL in those forces.

National Government of Iraq:

51% of those asked replied "Not very much confidence", or "None at all"; only 18% expressed a "Great deal of confidence".

Question 20:

Thinking of the current national government of Iraq, how do you feel about the way in which it has carried out its responsibilities?

53% reply either "Quite a Bad Job" or a "Very Bad Job".

And Here's The Clincher:

Question 23:

Who do you think currently controls things in our country

59% of those questioned replied that they thought it was the United States; up from only 24% in 2005.

Only 34% replied that they thought the Iraqi Government controlled things in Iraq.

So Foota, you've just presented as evidence something that strongly and wholly supports *MY* case; and almost completely undermines your arguments for the legitimacy of the Iraqi Government.

Firstly: why did you do that?

And secondly, what the fuck do you expect me to do now?

Peace