In Reply to #1

All things Change, and All things stay the Same. :)

How CAN America "Win" in Iraq? How CAN the United States get out of Iraq, without accepting defeat?

The main reason why the US can not "Win" in Iraq, is because the Bush Administration has never ever, EVER been able to define a plausible "Win" condition.

The problem, right from the start, is that the Bush Administration conflated the Invasion and subsequent Occupation of Iraq, with its "War on Terror". The Invasion of Iraq was a military exercise of dubious necessity (and outright illegality); the "War on Terror", is/was a brand name for a Foreign Policy (read Political).

As the new British Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, pointedly expressed to President Bush yesterday: the "War on Terror" can not be fought or won by military means alone; military personnel are not capable of winning political battles.

The Bush Administrations maximalist strategic objectives in Iraq are not attainable, and they never were: they are the product of fantasy, not strategy.

But if, as President Bush repeatedly says, the US is fighting to defeat Al Qaeda and other "terrorists" in Iraq, then victory can realistically be defined as seeing the re-creation of a state in Iraq.

The blundering and catastrophic US Invasion of Iraq destroyed the state in Iraq. The current Iraqi "Government", cowering in the Green Zone, is no government at all, because there is no state. A stateless Iraq is a HUGE win for Al Qaeda and other non-state forces, because they flourish in such statelessness (see also: Afghanistan and Northern Pakistan).

The longer that "Iraq"/Mesopotamia remains a stateless entity (or in a state of Anarchy), the more that the non-state forces like Al Qaeda and the many sectarian militias in Iraq win. The non-state forces arrayed against the United States in "Iraq", neither need nor want to beat the United States out of Iraq. The longer that the United States remains in Iraq, the longer it will be before anything like a functioning State of Iraq can emerge; and of course, the longer the US will spend wasting its blood and treasure in the desert sands. Having morally bankrupted the United States in the Eyes of the World, the non-State forces the US fights in Iraq will be more than happy to add economic bankruptcy of the former World Superpower to their nebulous trophy cabinets.

On the other hand, if a new State were to be re-created in Iraq, these non-state actors would lose.

This would be true, almost regardless of the nature and orientation of a new Iraq state. States do not like competition, and any real Iraqi state would quickly roll up the non-state forces on its territory. The fact that an Iraqi state would almost certainly be Shi'ite-dominated - while Al Qaeda is poisonously Salafist - makes that all the more certain.

The central strategic question, then, is, how can a state be re-created in Iraq?

There is no guaranteed answer; it may not be possible - sorry about that...

What IS guaranteed, however, is that the United States cannot do it.

The problem is legitimacy.

To be real, a future Iraqi state must be perceived by Iraqis as legitimate. But ANYTHING the United States, as a foreign invader and occupier, creates, endorses or assists, automatically thereby loses its legitimacy.

What the U.S. must therefore do, is get out of the way.

When elements in Iraq move to re-create a state - and those elements must be independent of the current al-Maliki "government", which as an American creation, has no legitimacy - they must be allowed to try to succeed.

There is, in turn, only one way for the US to get out of the way, and that is to get out of Iraq, as rapidly as it can.

As the Elephant in the Parlour, the US presence can not be of no effect. If the US works against proto-state elements in Iraq, it makes their job all the harder and their success less likely. If the US works FOR those elements, then "Hey Presto!", there goes the legitimacy of those elements out of the window.

To put it plainly: so long as the US is present in "Iraq", NO-ONE has a chance of re-creating a state in Iraq; which is to say, the US has no chance of winning.

But a STRATEGIC WITHDRAWAL of US forces from Iraq, would not be the retreat of a beaten army: it is precisely the withdrawal required by the strategic necessity, of accomplishing the United States' stated strategic goal of establishing a functioning State in Iraq.

The alternative, is the United States remains in "Iraq", denying any legitimacy to any proto-State elements in Iraq, all the while it suffers itself, the Arabian "Death of a Thousand Cuts".

With one third of the Iraqi population now caught up in the greatest mass migration and refugee crisis since the end of World War Two; the situation in Iraq has now gone WAY beyond the self-centred necessities and expediencies of a handful of venal politicians sitting in the White House.

The longer that the Bush Administration continues to insist that the only possible "Win Condition", is the United States' creation of a new Iraqi State - as opposed to the creation of a new Iraq State, BY IRAQIS - the more blood and treasure will continue to be lost in Mesopotamia.

And the more that the non-State and International Outlaw forces such as Al Qaeda, continue to Win.

Peace

PS. This post borrows heavily from an article in the July 30th Edition of "The American Conservative", by William S. Lind. But since I only got back from Turkey last night, I haven't the time to write a more personalised opinion, and I didn't want to just post the article in toto ('cos I know how distracting my doing that often is for the Brownshirts :))

PPS. Lovely to be back though - missed you all! :)