In Reply To #66

Ooop. Still alive then Foota.

I figured the reason you hadn't responded sooner must have been because you were in diaper-hell... ;-)

In Reply To #64

So Foota, you've just presented as evidence something that strongly and wholly supports *MY* case; and almost completely undermines your arguments for the legitimacy of the Iraqi Government.

We are not talking about the popularity of the Coalition.  We are talking about how Iraq (despite its flaws) is the most legitimate government in all of the Middle East based on representative participation.

No, we are talking about how the current government of Iraq is *NOT* seen as legitimate by the Iraqi People.

And, we are talking about how *Everything* that the US touches, supports or approves of in Iraq (and the wider Middle East), *instantly* loses all credibility and legitimacy in the eyes of Arabs.

And apart from anything else, you'll recall that the current Iraqi Administration is *NOT* that which was elected by the Iraqi People in 2005.

Remember Foota: despite Ibrahim al-Jafari emerging as the eventual Prime Minister of Iraq, following the election, in the end it turned out that the Bush Administration didn't like him, so he was replaced by al-Maliki, at that point more palatable and pliable to US interests.

Tell me how a government that has (and can have) its leader replaced at the whim of the occupying foreign military power is in anyway legitimate.

You'll probably figure a way to try and do that, but it's kind of irrelevant, since the only people whose opinion about the legitimacy of the current Iraq government matters, are the Iraqis.

And as *YOU* demonstrated with *YOUR* poll, Iraqis do *NOT* consider their government to be effective or representative of their interests.

And 60% of Iraqis believe that the United States Government is the dominant and ruling authority in Iraq.

And that's nearly as many Iraqis as those who want the US to withdraw all its forces immediately.

Using your analysis (based on the poll provided) - the Iraqi government has more legitimacy (based on popularity) then the current Democrat majority US Congress.

You forgot to write "(based on the poll *I* provided)" :)

No, the current US Congress has legitimacy NOT because of the number of votes it received in the 2006 Congressional Elections. All that election did was legitimise the current balance of power between Republicans and Democrat Party members in Congress.

Congress itself is seen as legitimate (mostly), because in theory, it is seen to represent the interests of American citizens (though more factually, it represents the interests of special interest groups and those corporations that can afford lobbying power - but that's another conversation). Congress as presently constituted and operating, is *NOT* seen by a majority of Americans to be representing the interests of a foreign power, and certainly not one currently occupying the United States militarily.

It is the fact that most Iraqis (as well as Everyone outside of the Bush Administration and its supporters) see the current Iraqi "Government" as satraps or puppets of the US Government, which denies the al-Maliki administration any legitimacy.

If you considered your government to be clearly placing the interests of a foreign (and militarily occupying) power over your own, would you consider it to still be legitimate?

What percentage of Brits enthusiastically support Brown and the Labor party?  Is it over 50%?  If it is below, does that mean your government is illegitimate?

Actually, an increasing number of Brits are warming to Gordon Brown, for one reason alone: he has taken *GREAT* steps to distance himself from the Bush Administration (unlike his fawning predecessor), and to reassert Britain's independence in its foreign policy objectives.

The number and percentage of votes cast by an electorate, merely determine the right and legitimacy of a political party to govern. It is the legitimacy of the entire institution of the current Iraqi government, as it "governs" today, that is not accepted by the majority of Iraqis.

IRAQIS: LIFE IS GETTING BETTER

MOST Iraqis believe life is better for them now than it was under Saddam Hussein, according to a British opinion poll published today.

The survey of more than 5,000 Iraqis found the majority optimistic despite their suffering in sectarian violence since the American-led invasion four years ago this week.

.

http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/iraq/article1530762.ece

What say you Holyman and TED?

What do you know sitting safely in your offices that these Iraqis don't?

That *YOU* get all your "News" and information from Rupert Murdoch's media empire.

Peace