[quote="Foota"][color=#FF0000]OK - so humans are something a bit more special even "separate" than the rest of nature based on our massive impact on the flora/fauna?

I think it is obviously true.

[b]Doesn't mean we should just rape our environment and not live SUSTAINABLE lives[/b], but clearly humans are a species quite distinct from the rest of the planet.[/color][/quote]

Alright, I'll take the bit I've bolded and hold that in my pocket as a Hostility Preventative.  ;)

Okay then.

Human Beings clearly are - or at least still can be - a bit Special.

Looking at the Fossil Record, it doesn't look like Nature has produced anything else like us, at any other point in this Planet's History. Neither Plants, nor Fish, nor Dinosaur ever - it appears - achieved the level of technological sophistication that Humanity demonstrates.

And if we have to reduce the Secret of Humanity's Success to a handful of characteristics that distinguish us from the other Natural developments on this Planet, I think it would be generally accepted that one of those characteristics would be: Conscious Self-Awareness.

Now that's just a phrase, so before SomeGuy leaps in, I'd better qualify it: other animals (it would seem), are generally self-aware. But animal self-awareness seems to be more instinctive than genuinely self-conscious. That is, that animals know they must protect themselves, must feed themselves, must create more of themselves; but those aren't abstract or conceptual activities for animals, so much as they are genetic imperatives.

Human Beings, on the other hand - and generally speaking - have the facility to self-reflect upon themselves as Individuals, and on Human Society as a Whole. They can think about themselves in abstract, and conceptualise activities without direct experience.

In other words, non-human animals - individually and collectively - will generally learn by Trial and Error (I know there are some exceptions to that, but I'm trying to keep my prose general). But human beings (still generally) possess the ability to consider and anticipate the consequences of action and inaction, without having to act - or having to fail to act.

And that's powerful Ju-Ju; particularly when you throw in the ability to very effectively articulate those abstract and conceptual thoughts into a language that can be verbalised and literalised, in a way that can then be communicated to those other apes, to which particular thoughts or concepts may not yet have occurred.

Now I'm not at all religious, so I don't for a second conceive that this (generally and apparently) singular facility was the result of some anthropomorphised deity (or Nature, come to that) flicking some kind of a Switch on in Human Beings. Half-a-million years is a long time for a single species to develop certain capabilities and capacities; and of course, the growth of development in Intelligence is always going to be exponential. Quite honestly, most of Humanity's ability to believe themselves to be quite separate from (and possibly "above") Nature, is the result of really only the last couple of centuries of Human Activity.

Indeed, it's probably fair to say that for a majority of Human Beings alive today, Life isn't all that different to the way it is for the majority of animals: just a daily grind to find enough to eat, to keep safe, and to maybe think about creating offspring. When you're starving hungry, in a war-torn Central African Republic, there probably isn't a great deal of opportunity or inclination to contemplate the Divine and inscrutable Mysteries of Life...

But hey, that's Somebody Else's Problem. We here all struck it lucky in the Human Lottery, and were able to squeeze our way out of a vagina that happened to be located in the most technologically advanced Human Societies. We get to indolently contemplate the abstract qualities and "Rights" of Gun Ownership; rather than have to deal daily with considering how we feel about all those guns that are actually and currently shooting bullets at our children...

But Life is not all a Bed of Roses for us citizens of the World's "Leading" Societies.

One of the less enjoyable characteristics of Conscious Self-Awareness, is the unfortunate tendency to feel guilty about the things we do, and don't do; and/or, the things that are done, or not done, in our Name, by our Democratic "Leaders".

All that those poor souls in the Third World have to worry about is maintaining their Existence (and the Existence of their children); whereas we in the West have to figure out how to *JUSTIFY* our Existence.

We are deluged with information about the inarguably negative consequences of some (many/most) of our individual and collective activities. Having to worry less about the activities of others that may be very immediately destructive towards our own lives; we have a lot of time to engage in and think about our own individual and collective activities that are actually (and startlingly obviously) self-destructive.

Drinking alcohol, smoking tobacco, taking drugs, over-eating, insufficiently exercising, are all personally self-destructive activities. Mass-consumption of consumer goods, recklessly wasteful usage of finite energy resources, incredible levels of pollution, the rapine and pillage of the Natural World: all collective activities that are unequivocally and scientifically demonstrable activities that are destructive to collective Human survival.

And yet, just as instinctively as the beasts of the Animal Kingdom pursue their next meal, humans in the "Developed World" remorselessly pursue these self-destructive activities (individual and collective); convinced of their own Supreme Abilities to resolve the negative consequences of such behaviour, as and when those consequences become so obvious that they can no longer be ignored.

But in the mean-time, Humanity's ability to self-deceive and to deny the irrefutable evidence of the consequences of their actions, remains as strong as their facility for Self-Awareness.

And whilst that Self-Awareness facility can and must produce feelings of guilt and self-loathing amongst individuals and collectives; in most cases, the instinctive response to those feelings is the reinforcement of Denial.

That's a particularly vicious circle; not so much a cycle, as a downward spiral.

I think it is justifiable for Human Beings to consider themselves as a Special component of Nature; but to imagine themselves to be Separate from Nature, is suicidal.

:>_