No problem.

I thought I'd extend the courtesy of a double-date, just in case World's Were Colliding. :)

To be honest, I'd rather meet up on Guy-Time anyway. But Holywoman is an easily attached and detached factor, so let me know if your missus is going to show up. :)

I hadn't planned on anything too hectic: I'm no longer the Holyman that once terrorised the Streets of Soho...

I figure we'd meet early afternoon in Piccadilly Circus, or somewhere more obvious, if I can think of it... And we can go for a drink from there.

The whole area is local to me for work, so I can get us off the Tourist Track fairly rapidly.

There's a decent Italian Bistro, under French management, and staffed by cute, mostly Slavic chicks. We can get a drink or two there, and maybe a bite to eat. Or if we feel more adventurous, we can tackle China Town.

The only other person there's a chance we might meet up with, is my oldest and bestest friend from since when I was seven. Who through the miracle of a recent Army re-posting, now lives and works about 10 minutes away from where I work. Which is nice. :)

He's been in the Army since he was about 21, and has a pretty interesting perspective on the kind of things we discuss Forum-side.

It occurs also that since you are coming up to Town, you might want to make a Night of it.

I'll probably be looking to get the last Tube back to North London, around 12.30am or so, depending on whether we hook up with my mate or not. But if you did want to make a night of it, I should be able to hook you up with a bunch of guys who I've passed the Soho Terrorising Torch to.

They're a bunch of guys who graduated from Exeter University last year, and one of them, Anthony, works for me as my Chief Whiz Kid cum Java/C# Developer. I've known him for years, since he's the son of a now-retired and very well respected consultant, and I've had him in doing work with me during academic holidays, since before he went to University. And I think those of his mates who have got a job yet, are working in one branch of IT or another.

Anyway, he and his mates are now tearing up London from Southwark to Soho, most nights, so if you wanted to hook up with a bunch of civilised guys, to do uncivilised things, you'd be safe in their hands. :)

Probably best if we communicate via Email from now on, 'cos this Forum's software is a pile of shite.

My personal Email address is: Stephen@1person.com

And my work address is: Stephen.Winspear@nichols.uk.com

You'll always get replies from my work address; but they both come in to the same mailbox.

And my mobile number is: 07973 730 503.

Sure we can fine tune the details as we get closer, but let me know if you do fancy an extended night, and I'll see what the guys are up to.

Cheers,

Steve