It is all about Sustainability.

That is the *ONLY* metric: is it sustainable?

At the Material Level: how much are we consuming? How much waste are we generating? Whatever the rates might be, are they sustainable?

At the Economic Level: Capitalism v Communism v Liberalism v Who-gives-a-fuck-anymore-ism... If any proposed Economic "System" ever had a chance of being sustainable, it has yet to demonstrate it. I blame Religion: it was used for so long to compel human beings to devote their poverty-stricken lives to grinding labour, that too many people now confuse serving Money with serving God.

Greed is a very unpleasant consequence of Fear: a Fear of insufficiency and lack. Current human economic systems are all justified as existing to prevent greedy human beings from starving out everyone else. But it is pretty fucking clear to anyone still in possession of their own thoughts in 2026, that these so-called "Anti-Greed" systems are now being used exclusively to feed the gluttony of the Ultra-Greedy.

I'm not judging (who am I to?) the individuals. I'm just highlighting how obviously unsustainable that system is.

As are any systems that are based on Fear.

So, when we consider anything in the context of the World Beyond Money, our primary measure is Sustainability.

Not just Environmental Sustainability - which will always be the uppermost consideration - but also Social Sustainability.

Which means we don't want to be hearing any "proposals" that involve frightening reluctant (or recalcitrant) people into obedience.

Because whilst fascism can seem appealing to some, against the backdrop of a World gone Mad..! Lengthy and bloody Human History (not least in the 20th century) shows that fascism is simply unsustainable.

All forms of totalitarianism are unsustainable.

Clearly. Or we'd all be under totalitarian control right now.

And we are not.

OK?

I'm not a Holyman-for-rules, as you know, but anyone who doesn't think through their ideas and responses in terms of how environmentally and *SOCIALLY* Sustainable they are, will be re-directed back to this thread.

The Clock is Ticking.