[quote="Alaskan Viking"][color=#BF0000]I'm not a fan of government meddling in peoples' lives. Leaders my have good, or bad, intentions but their solutions almost always create more problems then they solve, this is true with wealth redistribution, social engineering, and, if one is honest and applies the non-aggression principle uniformly, foreign policy as well. It has taken me years to wrap my head around this simple concept but now the truth of it is so self evident that I can't fathom how I missed it for so long.[/color][/quote]

That's pretty much my position in a nutshell.

FTR: I'm not anti-American; I'm anti-incompetent, meddling, self-serving, basically corrupt politicians.

It's just unfortunate for you Americans that your politicians happen to be Top-of-the-Food-Chain at the moment. It's for that reason alone that your government comes across as the sole object of my ire. But like I said, if this was a century ago, it would have been the Government of the British Empire and its supporters that would be getting the dressing down.

Moving on...

It's exactly as you say: "Leaders" who come up with "solutions" that always create more problems than they solve.

Fuck ideology; fuck Nationalism; fuck Patriotism; fuck Religion; and fuck Morality. Couldn't give a shit about any of them.

My personal Pacifism doesn't come into it either. That's a disposition borne out of my own personal values, but it doesn't mean I put the desire to see my ideology triumphant ahead of my own rationality.

It's about what is practical. About what is effective. What actually works. If a "Solution" causes more problems than it solves, then it isn't a solution, it is a part of the Problem.

The function of the Military within a Society is primarily to act in defence of that Society. When self-serving politicians order their Society's military forces into open-ended engagements, with no clear strategic objective, that is *ALWAYS* done for political reasons, never for reasons of actual defence or National Security.

Indeed, looking at most of the military adventures that the Governments of the US, UK and France have engaged in since World War II, it's pretty difficult to identify any one of those actions that can seriously be argued as a "Defence of the Realm" action - kicking the Argentinians out of the Falkland Islands seems to be about the only one, as far as I can tell.

Every other action - particularly those in the Middle East - seems to have *INCREASED* rather than decreased the safety and security of the Homelands.

[quote="Alaskan Viking"][color=#BF0000]It is widely accepted that the western powers tend to get themselves entangled in foreign misadventures when leaders go in without clear objectives. Now this is taking it to a whole new level, because we don't even know who the enemy really is.

...

^ That is the best description of the situation I have read so far. And I'm not sure our leaders have a much better idea of what is going on. [/color][/quote]

And that's the entire basis of my opposition.

The mess in Syria, like the mess in the wider Middle East, is not just beyond the ken of your average American or Brit citizen; it is beyond the limited attention span of most politicians to comprehend.

Lobbing a few Cruise missiles at Syrian Government installations simply won't improve matters for Syrian civilians: it *WILL* make the situation worse. And not just for Syrians, but for other civilians in the Middle East; and of course, for the citizens at home in America and Europe.

[quote="Alaskan Viking"][color=#BF0000]FFS. The World is tired of us trying to fix it, how about this time we just sit it out and let the world burn a little? After all, the world is one giant market now, the free market is like a self regulating natural ecosystem, and forest fires are necessary  in nature, what not let it burn? Creative destruction and all that. Just let them kill themselves for another 1,000 years and ignore their pleas for help, so we can deal with the Chinese, Europeans, South Americans, et al like sane, rational, productive members of the world community.[/color][/quote]

I completely agree.

Personal Responsibility is the parent of Self-Reliance.

Whilst the U.S. (or any other dominant Global Power) is apparently ready to act as "Global Policeman", no other more effective solution will ever be sought. There *IS* a need for an effective Global Security Apparatus that will intervene wherever and whenever required to halt supra- and infra-national violence.

This is just plain common sense.

We don't hand over the policing of our neighbourhoods to the strongest gang (criminal or otherwise); instead, we establish agencies whose responsibility is to objectively and uniformly enforce the Law.

This is not because the strongest gang is necessarily criminal, but because it is highly unlikely that it will ever be trusted (and therefore accepted) to objectively enforce the Law where doing so conflicts with its own strategic interests.

So, we have the Police, who, in theory (and usually, in practice, though not always) will always act in support of the Law.

That may not be ideal - any Law Enforcement Agency staffed by Human Beings will have all the frailties and shortcomings of the species - but it has to be better (more authoritative and acceptable) than just allowing the strongest gang to keep the Peace.

That's part of the natural and historical process of Social Evolution. And it's high time that we, as a Global Society, recognised that.

:>_