[quote="ClayMoore"][color=#FF0000]Your MPs are elected to represent their constituents, and generally they are tasked with following the will of their constituents. However, your system, like ours, is such that they are called upon to search their own consciences and vote accordingly. On difficult, sometimes unpopular decisions, such as the abolition of slavery, legalizing gay marriage, allowing women to vote, or going to war, they are not there to just parrot their voters, but to actually make tough decisions that might run contrary to the will of the electorate.[/color][/quote]

I hear what you are saying ClayMoore, and I agree with you completely.

Thing is though, there really aren't that many conscience driven MP's left in the House of Commons. Most of them are career-minded and entirely faithful to their Party Whips. The *ONLY* thing that will make them go against their Party's instructions, is the possibility that they will be voted out of their seat in Parliament at the next Election.

Now this isn't going to bother those MP's who have berths in *VERY* safe constituencies, that always return a Blue, Red or Yellow candidate - because that's what they've always done...

But "Safe Seats" are decreasing as fast as Political Party Memberships and allegiances are in the UK.

So the main influence on which way an MP votes in a Division, is always going to be whether it increases or decreases his or her chances of losing their seat at the next election.

Fuck principle, fuck conscience, fuck even some noble idea of representing what a majority of their constituents wants: it is *ALL* about survival; all about holding onto their positions come the next Election.

And in the recent vote on Syria, there were enough Conservative Party politicians who feared losing their seats in Parliament, for the vote to go against the (Coalition) Government's desire.

That's how it *ACTUALLY* works ClayMoore.

[quote="ClayMoore"][color=#FF0000]One would think that, by now, the British would have learned the hard lessons of not acting early to prevent heavy costs later. Just in recent history, the appeasement of Hitler, the inability to act in concert with other Europeans in the Balkans, and allowing Iraq to turn into a festering sore with the repeated violations of the Gulf War Ceasefire Accord have caused the loss of untold lives.

Britain's credibility on Syria is really on the line more than Obama's at this point, especially since you have been a leading party in signing and ratifying virtually every significant chemical weapons treaty and convention in the past 340 years.[/color][/quote]

I know this might be difficult for you - as a True American Patriot - to understand ClayMoore, but for by far the greatest part, most British people couldn't give a shit about the UK's "credibility". Nor - again for the most part - do they have much of a clue about what Britain did 1, 2 or 3 centuries ago, much less give a fuck about it.

Nationalism and Patriotism just don't figure much in the British identity.

One of the main reasons for this can be found in the nature of the United Kingdom, what "Britain" really means, and where individual British peoples' allegiances really are.

For starters, when it comes to geo-political affairs, "Britain" or "The UK", is actually a synonym for England. The Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish (except for the most Unionist of Ulstermen) identify more with their own countries (Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland), than they do with the Economic and Statist experiment that is The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

This is why the Scottish are currently pursuing independence, why the conflict in Northern Ireland was essentially settled by granting Ulster a high degree of political autonomy, and why even the Welsh National Assembly is garnering increased powers at every new Election.

There's even a move afoot to boot Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish MP's out of what some insist should be an English Parliament.

The real point is that very, very few UK Citizens identify with either British politicians, the Government or the Nation as a whole. Sure, they'll roll out the flags when a Scotsman wins Wimbledon, or there's a Royal Wedding or birth, but you've only got to look for the absence of a British Soccer Team to see where the sensibilities of the average person in the British Street really lies.

So if British People today are unlikely to identify or share responsibility with the current UK Government, how much of a shit do you think they really give about whatever past British Governments were doing when England... Sorry: Britain... Was actually a Superpower.

If there is any desire left for a demonstration of British dignity and independence, then it is best expressed in the increasing rejection of continuing to be America's European Aircraft Carrier.

Sorry 'bout that.

:>_