[quote="ClayMoore"][color=#FF0000]HM, To answer your first question, of course I knew. We all played a shameful role in arming Saddam and enabling his NBC weapons programs. BTW, love the hit piece, but the Mail should look to it's own house before it decides to throw stones.[/color][/quote]

Oh, don't expect any sort of consistency like that from the Daily Mail. They're basically what Fox News would look like, if it were a British newspaper.

But of all the links that Google offered me to support my point about the U.S. providing Iraq with and approving Saddam's use of chemical weapons against Iran, I thought using one from the Rightest-Wing source in the British Media was quite funny.  B-)

[quote="ClayMoore"][color=#FF0000]Oh, and are you really that committed to what the UN might say in the way of approval? If Assad set off a Sarin attack in London that killed your family, would you still insist upon the approval of Putin and Xi Jinpin - in the face of certain veto - before you acted? I think not, and I think you are hiding behind that dysfunctional organization as a means of avoiding action and remaining detached.[/color][/quote]

I wouldn't need to wait for the U.N. to approve any retaliatory action against Syria, if the Syrian Government launched a chemical attack against London. The United Nations Charter (drafted and instituted by the United States in 1945, incidentally) allows for military action to be taken in self-defence by any sovereign nation attacked by another. No approval required. I can fill my boots with dead Syrians, to whatever capacity necessary to slake my desire for revenge.

But in this particular instance, I'm not aware that the Syrian Government *HAS* launched any attacks (chemical or otherwise) against the People or Governments of the United States, United Kingdom, or France. I mean, I might have missed something in the News - I am pretty busy at work these days - but to the best of my knowledge, no such attack has been reported or proven.

And I'm afraid this means that for any punitive action to be carried out against the Government of Syria for its alleged use of chemical weapons against its own citizens, such action *MUST* be approved by the United Nations. Otherwise, any such action, if carried out without the approval of the United Nations Security Council, will be exactly as illegal as the original (and still only alleged) use of chemical weapons by the Syrian Government.

And let's face it, if previous experience is anything to go by, such punitive action carried out by the U.S. and whatever "Coalition of the Willing" it can scrape together, is more than likely going to kill more Syrian civilians than were killed in the original chemical weapons attack.

Oh, I know: the U.S. won't *MEAN* to kill Syrian civilians; but it will absolutely know with completely certainty that Syrian civilians *WILL* die during such an attack on Syria. It's unfortunate, but that's what it is going to cost to let Assad & Co. that they have been "Very naughty boys!" (if indeed it was the Syrian Government that carried out the CW attack).

Now don't get me wrong here ClayMoore, this isn't about me being a Pacifist, or a Socialist, or Anti-American, or pro-Syrian, or anti-Militarist, or pro-Muslim, or indeed, of any other moral or ideological persuasion. It is actually about me being of a purely *LOGICAL* persuasion.

Viz:

* - The same international statutes that forbid the use of Chemical Weapons, also forbid any military attack on a sovereign nation without the explicit authorisation of the United Nations Security Council. Breaking the same set of laws to punish someone else for breaking those same laws, makes those laws worthless; if one nation can choose to ignore them when it pleases, why can't every other?

* - If it is unjustifiable and morally abhorrent for the Syrian Government to use indiscriminate weapons against rebel positions, knowing that innocent civilians will be killed; why is it not also unjustifiable and morally abhorrent for the U.S. Government to use indiscriminate weapons against Syrian Government positions, knowing that innocent Syrian civilians will be killed?

* - If the United Nations Charter permits the use of force without UNSC approval, when one Nation is attacked by another; an unauthorised (by the UNSC) attack by the United States on Syria, would actually legitimise any retaliatory attack against the U.S. (and its allies) by Syria (and its allies).

And before anyone (SomeGuy...) says that Syria, Iran, Russia and China would be foolish to attack the United States in retaliation (though they would be perfectly within their Internationally legal rights to do so); History really does teach us that not every Nation can be counted on to act wisely, when dealing with matters of revenge, retaliation and standing up to dominant super-powers...

* - And if you ClayMoore, consider it unreasonable to expect anyone to wait for U.N. approval to retaliate if your home city was targeted by a foreign government; doesn't it follow that there are likely to be many men who would feel the same way about any attack on their home city by a foreign government?

...

Really: morality be damned. Morality is just a question of perspective. It's a totally subjective prism that can be moved and shifted around to suit political and domestic expedience.

One man's "Freedom Fighter" is another man's "Terrorist". We all know that. But can't we also observe that one Government's "outrageous, morally abhorrent and totally unjustifiable slaughter of innocent civilians", is another Government's "unfortunate collateral damage"?

It's the principle that operates, "If my Government does it, then it may be unfortunate and unpleasant, but it is always morally justifiable; but if their Government does it, by definition, that is always morally indefensible." Not only is this illogical and no basis for any kind of legal framework; it is also a very, very immature attitude.

And reprehensively counter-productive.

Now in common with most other people, I do not see the United Nations as it currently functions as being in any way ideal or all that effective.

But the adult in me can see that the *PRINCIPLE* on which the United Nations was based (by the United States, incidentally...) is as sound as the principles of Law and Order that we base our own National societies on.

The U.N. as it stands today may be less than perfect; but it is a whole lot better than simply accepting that one, all-powerful and morally-bankrupt nation, gets to decide what is Right and Wrong for everyone else.

:>_