I also hear what you're saying ClayMoore.

To clarify my position though, it is the Rule of Law and International Statute that I support and defer to, rather than the United Nations Security Council as a legitimising body.

I agree completely that the veto power possessed by *ALL* of the Superpowers (past and present) renders the UNSC ineffective and rather pointless.

The only thing I would add to your comments is that it isn't just the Russian and Chinese cunts that use their power of veto to prevent urgently required action taking place in Syria that makes the UNSC so redundant. The United States *ALSO* regularly uses its veto power to prevent action that the Rest of the World demands, not least of all with regards to the Israeli-Palestinian issue.

So you can't just throw brickbats at the Russians and Chinese to accuse them of undermining the principle and purpose of the U.N. Security Council. Both of those countries are as content as the United States to see no reform taking place with the United Nations. The U.S., Russians and Chinese all block U.N. reform, for exactly the same reasons.

And the only other point I'd add is that since 1986, the United States has exercised its UNSC veto more than Russia, China, France and the UK combined.

No, like you say, just as with the League of Nations, the United Nations has failed to achieve the lofty ambitions of its progenitors.

However, that isn't to say that the principle is not still sound. And it certainly isn't to say that we should give up the pursuit of that principle as unworkable.

Fact is, of the 206 member states of the United Nations, at least 200 of them would fully support a complete rework and redevelopment of the U.N. that would see the dominance of the five permanent members of the UNSC reduced, and the authority and democratic legitimacy of the other 200 nations increased.

Meanwhile, we *DO* have in place, international laws and statutes, that most nations - including the five permanent UNSC members - have subscribed to.

These include: the U.N. Charter; the Geneva Conventions; Conventions on the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism; and a fair bunch of other laws governing Human and Commercial Rights.

http://www.un.org/en/globalissues/internationallaw/

There are also protocols and precedents set by things like the Nuremburg Tribunals, that are also [i]de facto[/i] International Laws.

And when I consider the act of a Government using chemical weapons being illegal, what makes that act "illegal" is International Law; the self-same International Law that also makes a military attack on one sovereign nation by another, also illegal.

So I'm not saying that nobody *SHOULD* attack Syria unless the United Nations Security Council approves it.

I'm saying that if any other country does attack Syria *WITHOUT* United Nations Security Council approval: that is just as illegal as the (alleged) use of chemical weapons by the Syrian Government.

That's the Law as it stands today. And I'm pointing that out, just as so many people are keen to point out that the use of chemical weapons is also illegal, as far as the law stands today.

:>_