[quote=suckyshot][color=green]You don't want to tax them more, fine, but I would say it's DAMN obvious we need to fix this problem, and unless you have other ideas, I'd say you don't have much of a valid point.[/color][/quote]

I guess the thing is that the nature of taxes and levels of taxation is a secondary issue. Secondary to the issue that is what are taxes for in the first place.

And there are only really two responses to that question: to fund government/social expenditure; and to redistribute wealth.

Now, we all know that governments are inefficient, self-serving and usually corrupt entities. Politicians covet power and they enjoy the exercise of power. The record shows, without exception, that politicians are the absolutely worst possible people to be responsible for making spending decisions.

The amount of money wasted by politicians is as incredibly huge as it is incredibly obvious.

But by and large, citizens accept this and resign themselves to a sense of helplessness and disempowerment.  And instead, set to arguing about how much tax should be raised (so that politicians can waste it), and who should pay the most tax (to politicians so that they can waste it).

This isn't an ideological or partisan issue. These are just the incontestable facts.

Governments and politicians waste *ASTRONOMICAL* amounts of money; and give away almost as much to their paymasters and cronies.

I would be happy to pay more tax than I do, if I could see it being spent frugally and purposefully. But until that time, I will continue to try and pay as little tax as I can afford to pay my accountant to help me avoid.

As far as taxation for wealth redistribution goes...

Well, putting it blatantly, that is saying:

[i]"We are going to take money away from you, because you have a lot of it; and we are going to give it to them, because they don't have as much."[/i]

However you want to dress it up, that's what it's about.

Of course, you might ask, "Well how come those people have more than the others in the first place?"

Is it hard work? Good fortune? Inheritance? Corruption? Efficiency? Miserliness? Theft?

The answer has to be: All of the above.

You might also have to ask, "What kind of behaviour or attitude is going to be encouraged amongst those who have little, if they know that they can rely on hand-outs or top-ups, which will increase the wealth that they are too lazy, too unlucky, to disinherited, too honest, too incompetent, too profligate, or, uh, too honest (again) to have earned by themselves?"

To which the answer is likely to be: Hmmm... I see what you mean.

If nothing else, welfare hand-outs not only give politicians and government a purpose, it also teaches many people to be dependent upon them. It makes those relying on government hand-outs/redistributive policies, see Government as an essential and immutable aspect of Existence.

(Which it isn't.)

I think that the actual question has to be:

What does Everyone *NEED*? You know: at the basic Human level.

I'd say: water, food, shelter, healthcare and the opportunity for education.

I think that's it, as far as basic human necessity goes.

Now the point is that many, many, *MANY* Human Beings don't have anything like guaranteed access to those necessities. And that causes all sorts of social problems. But if and when those basic necessities are met, as a matter of basic human compassion, everything else is up to the Individual.

If they want to become filthy, steenking rich, then that is entirely up to them. And if they want to do nothing but drink water, eat food, stay healthy and educated within their basic shelter, then that it is also a valid Lifestyle Choice.

I suspect that most people would aim for somewhere between those extremes though. And good luck to them. Some will realise their ambitions, some will exceed them, and others won't. And ideally, they should succeed or fail entirely on their own merits, so that no-one can steal their glory, and so that they don't waste experience by blaming others for their mistakes.

The problem I see with the Wealth Inequality dynamic is that it seems to suggest, as Foota pointed out, that "Wealth" is a finite pot, and that in order for someone to have more, someone else has to have less.

To the best of my knowledge, that isn't how it works.

Wealth *IS* a relative measure of course. Whoever has the most "money" is the wealthiest, and whoever has the least, is the most destitute. But if we are measuring relative wealth in purely monetary terms, well actually, money can be and is entirely created out of thin air.

Money is just a figment of Humans' imaginations. If you want more money, just imagine you have more, and you will.

Promise you.

Point being that just because someone has accumulated and is hoarding a lot of money, doesn't mean that everyone else can't accumulate as much money as they want to hoard as well.

(Because "Money" is just a figment of Humans' imaginations - did I say that already?)

The actual problem is not that someone has a billion dollars, whilst someone else only has $1.42. The actual problem is that there are many, many people who aren't able to provide for their own basic human needs.

Money doesn't come into it.

Guaranteeing our fellow human beings' basic survival seems to me to be something that anybody but a sociopath would support. It is something that the majority of us choose to do voluntarily, with our charitable giving.

Paying for someone to sit on their fat arse, eating crap, drink pissy beer, and watching tragically awful television programmes is not a situation that anyone can really justify supporting.

And at the other end of the scale, hoarding vast amounts of cash and spending obscene amounts of it on unnecessary luxuries, whilst other people starve, is just as indefensible.

However, not every welfare-dependent is workshy and feckless. And not every billionaire is a greedy miser. And looking to inefficient, self-serving and corrupt governments to even the balance between rich and poor, clearly won't work.

It isn't taxation that should be used to force those with enormous wealth to help those in extreme poverty, but shame and compassion.

And it isn't government hand-outs that should be used to lift people out of poverty, but pride and dignity.

Government taxation and welfare is not the solution: it is the problem.

[face_peace]