On the subject of income taxation...

Wage or earnings taxation is always going to feel harsh and unfair, and overtly or subversively will always weight as a disincentive.

It's fair to say that even Socialists have to put their ideological sensibilities ahead of their rationality when it comes to justifying a tax on earnings, no matter how progressive or fair an income tax system may seem. There is simply no arguing with the fact that being permitted to keep 100% of the income an individual or corporation earns represents a substantial incentive over income taxation.

As it goes, income taxation is a relatively modern affair anyway. Income taxes were first introduced in the UK only a couple of hundred years ago, and in the U.S., only at the time of the Civil War. So it isn't that an involuntary tax on earned income is an immutable facet of the Human Condition.

So how could tax revenues be raised other than (primarily) on earned incomes?

On unearned incomes.

An unearned income is most obviously money earned on land or property rents or leases.

Owning property doesn't cost the owner anything at all. Ownership is an abstract concept at best anyway, but if that concept is universally accepted, then ownership of land or residential or commercial property is just a legal state of affairs, not something that requires any labour or effort.

Maintaining a property or stretch of land is a different thing, of course, as is working land in the way that a farmer does. Land or property maintenance costs would properly be considered an allowable deduction. But any income received on land or property rents over and above those maintenance costs is both pure profit, and completely unearned.

It's a similar situation with capital gains. Someone who buys a property for 250,000, then sells it for 500,000 a few years later, without investing any time, material or effort into upgrading that property, has not earned that 250,000 profit, they are simply the fortunate recipient of fluctuating market forces outside of their control.

Now, it can be argued that whatever steps were necessary to come into possession of a piece of land or property that can be rented out, constitutes the "earning" of any subsequent income. Same with financial speculation for capital gains: the "earning" aspect is the up-front positioning, investment and marshalling of financial resources, in order to ensure an on-going income stream.

And that's a fair point.

But there is also a clear distinction between an income that is earned for on-going effort and activity (work), and an on-going income stream that requires no further effort or activity to maintain.

Point is that once an income is established from land or property rents, investment dividends or capital gains, no incentive is required to maintain that income and continued receipt of such unearned income cannot be disincentivised. By contrast, incomes that require continuous and regular investment of an individual's time and energy [b]CAN[/b] be disincentivised by income taxation, particularly where progressive income tax regimes inflict a law of diminishing returns.

Consider also that unearned incomes from land and property rents, investment dividends and capital gains are generally subject to market forces beyond the control of the beneficiaries of such incomes.

A construction worker knows that there is a set hourly or daily rate for the time he spends working. Whilst the rates may fluctuate according to supply and demand, the construction worker always knows that the amount of money he earns is in direct correlation to the amount of time he spends working. If he wants to maintain the same level of income when rates drop, he can spend more time working. Or if rates rise, he can, if he chooses to, spend less time working and maintain his income at the level he desires.

By contrast, a landlord's income will also fluctuate according to market forces, but there is nothing he can do to make up any shortfall: he must always take whatever the market prices will afford him. If rental prices drop through the floor, there is nothing the landlord can do about it, he simply receives less income and has to accept that. And of course, if rental prices go up, then he won't [b]WANT[/b] to do anything but accept the increased income.

And the point here is that taxation on such unearned, fluctuating incomes as rent and investment dividends cannot act as a disincentive to earnings or greater productivity; whereas taxation on earned income (work), clearly must act as a disincentive to same, regardless of how equitable or progressive the income tax regime is.

Now as luck would have it - and this should appease the Socialists - by and large it is the most wealthy members of our societies who are the greatest beneficiaries of unearned incomes. There are many forms of unearned income beyond just land and property rental, investment dividends and capital gains; whereas an earned income is exclusively defined as income earned for services rendered.

Furthermore, unearned incomes tend to be extractive, in relation to the Economy as a whole, in that they don't reflect payment for increased value in the Economic Infrastructure of a Society. Earned incomes, on the other hand, are paid for contributions [b]INTO[/b] the Economic fabric of a Society that facilitate an expansion of the overall Economy. Of course, surpluses from unearned incomes can and often are privately re-invested back into an Economy, often in ways that will facilitate a greater unearned income for the individual investor. But the subsequent benefit to the Economy is a secondary factor (to the expansion of the private investor's unearned income portfolio), and must result in a further extraction of value from the Economy as a whole because, ultimately, the investor wants a profit for his or her self.

So ultimately, I think that we "Workers" do ourselves few favours by arguing over the precise rates of income taxation, when our energies would serve us better if we directed them at the specific systems of taxation we work under.

Of course, whether we are talking about taxes on earned or unearned incomes, we're still focussing on the input side of the equation. I think that we should give much greater attention to the output side, which is how, where and why Governments spend tax revenues.

Governments are the most incredibly wasteful and financially inefficient entities in Human Society, not least because they are primarily concerned with assuring the status of individual politicians and nations in relation to their peers.

Chasing status is quite probably the most wasteful and pointlessly expensive activity engaged in by human beings.

[face_peace]