[quote=suckyshot][color=green]Still failing to see the argument that demanding higher taxes on those absolute richest will cause massive problems for us all. If anything, according to the arguments I've seen here, that massive boost in income and tax reductions on those wealthiest should be in turn causing our economy to absolutely THRIVE, with investments in everything, and more benefits on the common worker, et al

Seriously, explain, someone, ANYONE, why you think that still holds true in the face of such evidence, because I sure as hell am not seeing it. I'm not using this as an excuse to say we don't need to be reforming and cutting our spending in this country, so please for the love of God, don't go there again.[/color][/quote]

Look Sucky, stop obsessing about taxes: it's spending reformation and cuts that are needed now!!!

{Sorry... :)}

Alright then.

Let's try and distil things down and see if we can get to the bottom of this. Let's start with first principles:

Human Beings are social animals. Some might say we have an instinct towards herding. Or maybe it is just a tribal thing. But the consequence is the same: we like to live together in Communities.

When humans come together in communities, mutual cooperation is the "glue" that is supposed to hold them together; that mutuality is enshrined in an often unwritten, "Social Covenant". And the basic principle of the Social Covenant is:

[b]In order to continue enjoying the benefits of Community, members are expected to make a contribution to the Community, and to abide by the Community's customs.[/b]

So, the "Reward" is access to Social Benefits that might otherwise be unavailable to an individual, or difficult for them to source, such as clean water, a regular food supply and a more robust defence from predators.

And the "Price" is that each Community member is expected to make whatever contribution they are able to make.

Clearly children are not immediately able to make any practical contributions, but it is the custom of the Community to condition children as they develop, so that when they reach adulthood, they *ARE* able and willing to make a contribution.

Obviously there are also going to be members of the Community who are physically or mentally incapable of ever making a positive practical contribution to the Community. These individuals are supported, tolerated, celebrated or exterminated according to each Community's custom.

Contributions from able Community members may be practical, in the form of skills and services; or they may be material, in the form of resources necessary for the survival and development of the Community. However the latter is determined by the Community's customary attitude to ownership, which may not necessarily include the concept of private property.

The "Penalty" for failing to pay an acceptable "Price" for the "Rewards" of Community, is exclusion.

This might be physical exclusion: actual ejection from the Community's dominions, with no right to return. It might be social exclusion: the ex-member of the Community may be allowed to stay where they are, but are not to be communicated with or allowed access to Community resources. Or, it might be a mortal exclusion, particularly in the case of a serious breach of the most important of the Community's customs. In other words: execution.

And I think that is pretty much it, in a nutshell. It seems so straight-forward. So how does it get so complicated?

Morality.

Oh, and the Illusion of Separation.

The idea that individual members of the same Community are somehow distinct and separate from one another is an illusion. In fact, it is a wilful illusion, which makes it a *DE*-lusion.

The Delusion is the belief that the condition of an individual Community member has no effect on the condition of the Community as a Whole. It's a Delusion based on morality; and as we know, the application of morality is always subjective, based on an individual's perspective.

So, we might say that when a Community Member starves to death, that doesn't have a negative effect on the Community that allowed one of its own to starve.

And at the other end of the scale, we might say that when a Community Member is able to accumulate vast sums of personal and private material wealth, disproportionately greater than the majority of other Community Members, that must have a hugely positive effect on the Community.

The point here is not to quantify the positive and negative effects of individual member actions or events on a Community. It is to illustrate that Communities tend to accept the Delusion of Separation when something unfortunate, sad and/or shameful happens to one of its own; but fully reject the same Delusion when something fortunate, happy and/or prideful happens to another of its own.

If something morally "bad" happens within the Community, then that Community is inclined to reject responsibility for the event. But when something deemed morally "good" occurs, then the Community falls over itself to proclaim the event as a direct consequence and demonstration of the superior qualities of the Community as a Whole.

So, what happens as a Community develops and progresses is that "Morality" is used to codify customs and traditions, into a legal and practical social framework. Anything that is considered "Morally Good" is celebrated and enshrined; and anything that is deemed "Morally Bad" is denigrated and rejected.

And that's all fine too.

Or at least, it should be.

But the problem with Morality is that it is always and only ever a matter of perspective. In fact, it can be summed up as:

[b]If I do something, it is obviously Good; if anyone else does something I don't want them to do, it is obviously Bad.[/b]

The Truth is that no-one ever does anything "Bad", given their own model of the World; that is, based on their own values and perspectives.

Hitler never considered anything he did "Bad" or "Wrong". Serial killers don't see themselves as "Evil". And Investment Bankers don't see themselves as a cancerous polyp on the lungs and heart of Human Society.

Furthermore, when someone like Hitler was at the top of his game, there were millions and millions of ordinary Germans who also believed that there was nothing "Morally Bad" about his policies and actions. Just as there are today, very many people who believe that there is nothing "Morally Wrong" with the current activities and actions of, say, Investment Bankers. (Serial killers rarely have a strong support base... Well, not until they are arrested and imprisoned, when they often seem to inexplicably develop fan-bases, usually among a certain class of middle-aged women, oddly enough...)

Alright, so Hitler is an extreme example. But Investment Bankers aren't. The point is that as each power-player or power-group rises to the top of the Melting Pot, they bring with them their own particular take on "Morality". And they inevitably enact legislative changes to enshrine this new "Morality" into the Social Norm.

And that's really where we are today, with our legal statutes and our tax codes.

Over the centuries, our laws and our tax regimes have never survived beyond a year or two, before being "adjusted", "rationalised", "improved", "stream-lined" or made "more progressive". And every time a law or tax code is changed, an Army of lawyers and accountants pore over the fine print to find some way of circumventing the latest changes.

Suddenly, we realise that the desire to live in Communities has created a conceptual mountain of laws, taxes and governmental jurisdictions, which has taken on a Life of its own.

Remember that the idea of living in Communities is to make our individual lives easier. We recognise the efficiencies of co-operation, and the economies of scale. Community living is meant to make our individual lives easier. Instead, we find ourselves utterly preoccupied and existentially consumed, by Matters of State.

Of the 16 hours or so that we spend every day of our lives not sleeping, how much of it is spent trying to manage our membership of the Community?

How much of the 8 hours or so that we spend working every day, is actually spent developing ourselves, exploring our own creativity, fulfilling our personal ambitions?

How much of our Time is spent just trying to survive the rigours of Community Living?

Somewhere along the way we seem to have lost a really important point. Somewhere along the way our Communities became bi-polarised. Somewhere along the way, our Communities' dysfunctions have seriously hampered our own functionality.

Arguments about whether to tax "The Rich" more or less, or about whether "Government" should be larger or smaller, are like arguing about whether or not to close the door, when there is an Elephant in the Room.

Those arguing to keep the door open are saying that unless the door is open, the Elephant will never leave. And those arguing to keep the door closed are saying that unless it is closed, there is a chance that *MORE* Elephants will come into the Room.

In fact, a more sensible and purposeful discussion would revolve around that fact that, [b]*THERE IS A FUCKING ELEPHANT IN THE ROOM!!!*[/b].

Oh, obviously, leaving the Door open so that the Elephant can leave of its own accord is the [b][color=red]*RIGHT*[/color][/b] answer. I mean, the Elephant came into the Room of its own accord, so it is bound to eventually leave of its own accord too.

But then again, if the Door is [b][color=blue]*LEFT*[/color][/b] open, then more and more Elephants are going to join the first one - they are herd animals after all. And before too long, the Room will be destroyed, and Everyone in the Room trampled to death.

Alright, I've got a better idea.

How about *WE* leave the Room *AND* the Elephant behind, and go Outside ourselves?

The Room was stinking of Elephant Shit anyway, and it would still be too cramped, even if and when the Elephant leaves.

What is stopping us moving Outside? What is stopping us from building new, Elephant-proof Rooms? What is stopping us from using our combined knowledge, expertise and wisdom, to Create a new, Elephant-less Community for ourselves?

I don't think that the problem is that we tax the rich too much, or that we don't tax the rich enough. And I don't think that the problem is that our governments are too big, or that they are not big enough.

I think The Problem is that we have forgotten why it is we choose to live in Communities. I think we have forgotten what it means to be a part of a Community, even as we fear being apart *FROM* a Community.

And I think The Answer is to remember that we can Change anything we don't like, into something that we do like. To remember that we don't have to keep living in the same old shit we have been living in for centuries.

It isn't individual aspects or policies of our tax systems that aren't working, or are wrongly applied: it is that Taxation as an entirely man-made conceptual System is hopelessly and completely broken. Nobody likes it; nobody really benefits from it; and it doesn't deliver in a positive and meaningful way, what it is supposed to deliver.

So let's Change it something else.

And while we're at it, the same applies to our Systems of Government, so let's Change those too.

Endlessly arguing about the precise and specific ways in which Taxes and Government are broken and ineffective, is just an exercise in futility.

We can all agree they don't work: so let's get on with Creating something that *DOES*.

[face_peace]