In Reply To #21

If we had all the facts we would not need the CIA, let alone CIA "analysts" to draw conclusions from imperfect information.  Make sense?  Tricky concept?  Controversial?  Do you disagree?  Can we move on?

For example, why would Saddam let his entire country suffer for 10+ years from Sanctions by not cooperating with UNMOVIC if he really did not have WMDs?

Conclusion #1 - He really had WMDs?

Conclusion #2 - Pride?

Conclusion #3 - Saddam is Crazy?

There are so many more important and legitimate debates about this war.  Yet simple minded people like you are still pushing the 4 year old "Bush Lied" meme.

It is really pathetic - IMO.

You know, I was chatting about this issue with Holywoman yesterday Foota, and we identified a really quite amusing paradox at the heart of your position.

The single most prominent justification used by the Bush, Blair and Howard Administrations to gather sufficient support to invade Iraq, was that Saddam Hussein had WMD's, a functioning WMD programme, and represented a threat to Iraq's neighbours and the World at large.

Supplementary to that, was the claim that Saddam Hussein was the most egregious abuser of Human Rights, and the Iraqi people deserved to be free of his rule.

However, the option continually offered to Saddam Hussein in the run-up to the Invasion, by Bush, Blair and presumably Howard, was that if he surrendered his WMD's, then there would be no need for the Invasion. So Hussein can't have been all that bad, since Bush & Blair were happy for him to continue ruling Iraq, if only he would give up his WMD's.

The fact is, Saddam Hussein had no WMD's.

That means that there can't have been any proof that he had WMD's: only faulty intelligence.

In light of the fact that Saddam Hussein's Iraq had no WMD's to speak of (at least, nothing on the scale that the Bush and Blair Administrations led their citizens to believe), you are forced to concede Foota, with your usual lack of grace, that the Intelligence available to the Bush Administration was faulty.

Now, the issue is whether or not the Bush Administration KNEW it was faulty, and whether or not its orchestrated campaign to drum up support for the Invasion of Iraq was a wilful deception of the People of the United States by their Presidential Administration.

And you say that there is no proof of that.

And you say that since there is no proof, we "hysterical harpies" should STFU, and drop our out-dated anti-Bush "memes [sic]" ("Tropes" would be a better word Foota).

Now, do you see what Holywoman & I were giggling about Foota?

On the basis of faulty intelligence, and no factual evidence at all regarding Saddam Hussein's WMD programme; and actually on the basis of nothing more than hearsay, circumstantial evidence, reputation and intent, you did and continue to FULLY support the Bush Administration's illegal Invasion and Occupation of Iraq.

An Invasion and Occupation that has cost uncounted lives, further destabilised a highly volatile region of the World, bankrupted the United States of America, and set the cause of World Security and governance back 70 years.

Despite all the horrendous consequences of the Invasion of Iraq, an Invasion based on no factual or provable evidence, you continue to support the Occupation and the political Administration behind it.

There can have been no proof that Saddam Hussein had WMD's. But you support the War that could ONLY have been fought because the Bush Administration convinced, without any proof, a sufficient number of people (including you) to support the Invasion.

Now then...

We come to the issue of whether or not the Bush Administration manipulated intelligence, information and the American People.

Based on circumstantial evidence, numerous witness testimonies, and a basic common sense understanding of the way that politicians and politics work, there is an increasingly high probability that the Bush Administration DID wilfully manipulate the American People.

BUT, unless you see absolutely incontrovertible proof that the Bush Administration manipulated the American people wilfully and deceitfully; you refuse to entertain any notion of their wrongdoing.

To summarise:

No proof that Saddam Hussein had WMD's: fuck it; invade Iraq and hang Hussein after putting him through the motions of a kangaroo court.

No concrete proof that President Bush and his Administration deliberately and wilfully misled the American Public into supporting the disastrous Invasion of Iraq: oooh, well, better give him the benefit of the doubt then.

Why the double standard Foota?

I mean, I don't think anyone with the possible exception of Mad Cat is promoting the idea that President Bush should be given an unfair trial, and then be hanged to death surrounded by cat-calling Liberal progressives all taking photos for prosperity with their cell-phones. The worst fate that can await President Bush, is that he'll have to spend his retirement on his farm in Uruguay.

All that most people are talking about is the impeachment of President Bush for a fair trial Foota.

I mean, surely as a supporter of this Lame Duck President, I would have thought you would FAVOUR impeachment. If President Bush and his Administration have done nothing wrong, he and his cabinet have nothing to fear from impeachment: it will clear the air.

There's such an unpleasant air of division amongst the People of the United States at the moment, a fair and objective impeachment process - that would undoubtedly exonerate the President - would be just the kind of thing need for Truth and Reconciliation.

Do you distrust the impeachment process designed by Jefferson Foota?

Do you think President Bush has anything to fear from being impeached Foota?

Why DO you hold the "Leader of the Free World" to a lower standard, than you do a tin-pot Middle Eastern dictator?

Peace