In Reply To #50

But you and Mad Cat still have no proof that the politicians manipulated the intelligence coming from the CIA regarding Iraq's WMD capabilities.

Did the Bush Administration tell the American Public, that they were absolutely certain that Saddam Hussein's Iraq had WMD's, a functioning WMD programme, and presented a clear and immediate danger to the United States of America, and its allies in the Middle East?

Did the Bush Administration spend millions of dollars, trying to convince the American public of its absolute certainty of the threat posed by Saddam Hussein; and the absolute and dire need for the US to invade Iraq?

Did President Bush tell you that you were in danger from Saddam Hussein?

Because that was the impression I got of what was going on.

Or did I just dream it?

Politicians wanted to invade country.

International Law and domestic popularity would not allow those politicians to invade that country.

Politicians lied to domestic audience about the threat posed by that country: domestic audience trusted the lie.

Nothing new there.

Bet you thought President Bush was a straight-talkin' Texan homeboy, di'n't ya.

It wouldn't occur to you to put him in the context of speech writers, speech therapists, speech managers, speech prompters; image managers, news managers, media managers.

Lawyers.

Think about what you're asking Foota. Think about the context of your request.

You represent a dwindling minority of people who continue to trust that the Bush Administration acted with all reasonable propriety, over the issue of the Iraq War.

As each line of your defence for this support crumbles, with each leak or whistle-blower, you retreat further and further behind your barricades.

By now, the only response you've got to the many pointed questions that Mad Cat has asked, and the more philosophical questions that I've asked, is to demand that either of us produces PROOF, the President George W. Bush, the 43rd President of the United States of America, is guilty of high crimes and misdemeanours, against the People and Constitution of the United State, and against Humanity.

That's it Foota. That's your last line of defence. The fact that neither Mad Cat, I or anyone else, has got damning evidence of the Bush Administration's complicity in these awful crimes of deception.

Tell me Foota: do you think that if I had concrete proof of Bush's personal complicity in these criminal events; and/or the collective complicity of his Administration...

That I would be sitting here talking with you?

Peace