In Reply To #35

In Reply To #34

Why bother deconstructing the 2002 CIA report, when the Director who's name is upon it has already done so?

Exactly where has Tenent deconstructed the 2002 CIA assessment on Iraq's WMDs claiming that Bush (or any politician) lied or manipulated the intelligence?  All he said is that the CIA got some of their analysis wrong.

Specifics please.  Include links.

Seriously..?

Oh alright then:

http://www.amazon.com/At-Center-Storm-Years-CIA/dp/0061147788/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1/104-6210906-5112740?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1177966398&sr=8-1

Now you are moving the goalposts saying that the "lie" was merely the "certainty" that Bush and Blair put behind the intelligence assessments.

Hah!

It's actually more enjoyable than I thought it would be, watching you squirm Foota.

I mean, forgive this uncharacteristic schadenfreude on my part, but you HAVE had plenty of opportunities to just let this go and maintain a shred of credibility...

Tell me Foota, when did I set up those "goalposts" that I'm now "moving"?

(I can assure you that I have been meticulously consistent on this line. You should know... :))

Look, even the Bush Administration knows what their crimes and misdemeanours are, their lies, deceit and hoodwinking of the American Public. Only YOU, and a handful of die-hards continue to believe in the necessity of this Conflict, and that the Bush Administration was in anyway acting for the benefit of the US, the World or Humanity as a whole.

I wonder if that applies to the "certainty" many of our politicians and celebrities are putting on Global Warming?  Are they lying or just true believers?  Is there a difference?

I wouldn't know or care Foota.

If I want to know about "Global Warming", I listen to scientists, not politicians or celebrities.

How about you?

Honestly, there is not much point in debating with you on this subject when you believe in the very worst of American motives.  As evident in your belief that the last 9 of 11 US Presidents are certified war criminals and that America beats up on Arabs to steal oil and spread a non-existent empire (PNAC). I forgot, you also have to move the goal posts and re-define  "imperialism" to maintain your knee-jerk pacifist criticism of America.

Yup, there you go Foota.

If all else fails; if your position is finally bereft of all validity; if there's no conceivable way that you can defend your ideas or moral platform anymore..:

Try attacking something.

The irony is delicious. :)

Peace