In Reply To #23

In Reply To #22

And you're still pushing the 4-year old "US military violence in Iraq will make that nation an Enlightened Democracy" meme...

And you are still pushing your whacked pacifist views that seems to accept the Social Darwinism theory of the survival of the fittest.  Essentially the West should sit back and watch fascists and totalitarians run unchecked even if it ends in genocide and ethnic cleansing of weaker societies. Just as long as the totalitarians keep the killing off of the evening news it is perfectly fine by Holyman - right?  As long as there is no "imperial tinge" from the West, the Muslims and Arabs can continue their merry way of butchering the weakest amongst their societies with "organized violence".

Yeah, yeah Foota, that's JUST what I believe... Ask anyone who knows me, anyone who reads any of my stuff, they'll confirm everything you've just written there:

Basically, I'm for all forms of violence, provided that violence isn't sourced in the United States or Israel.

Damn! You got me!

Seriously though Foota, I noticed you didn't respond to my question in the other thread about why you are here attacking people for supporting organisations and policies they manifestly don't support.

You've just done the same thing here again, haven't you? Mad Cat is doing a wonderful job deconstructing your position and pronouncements. I chime in with a response to your (usual) disingenuousness (that Hussein clearly had WMD's, or he wouldn't have endured 10 years of crippling sanctions [sic]); and you bring up Darfur as though I'm somehow in favour of inactivity on the part of the International Community, and not at all in favour of an International Police Force upholding International Law.

You believe that I believe that "the West should sit back and watch fascists and totalitarians run unchecked even if it ends in genocide and ethnic cleansing of weaker societies".

I just believe that you are a supporter of the Bush Administration: no more; no less. And I try to persuade you to withdraw that support. That's it.

Why are you treating me like I'm a supporter of fascist totalitarians, or at the least, favour inactivity and letting them get on with their genocide Foota?

Is it because that would be an easier argument for you than defending the indefensible actions of the Bush Administration?

Is this why no one in Europe or the States seems to be pushing to end the "organized violence" (genocide) in Darfur?  Africa and human rights are not our problem?

No, no-one seems to be pushing to end the genocide in Darfur, because the Bush Administration's woeful incompetence in Iraq has given international humanitarian operations a real bad name.

We DO need an International Police Force that upholds the Rule of International Law. You KNOW I support that notion Foota. And I know that you do NOT support that notion; that you believe that any organisation not dominated by the United States must act in ways harmful to America's interests.

And yet here you are, up against the ropes as the whole White House of Cards collapses, trying to treat me like I'm NOT against all forms of politically motivated institutional violence.

Why is that Foota?

Point is that many, MANY people correctly identified the lies of the Bush Administration in the run-up to the War;

That is the whole crux of the debate on this thread - you still don't have any evidence of "Bush Lies" when it comes to interpreting the Intelligence on Iraq's WMD program.

Yeah, I do Foota.

You see the whole crux of this debate - in this thread and in the Real World - is NOT whether or not Saddam Hussein had WMD's or a WMD programme.

Military Intelligence is a murky affair; and military intelligence being used to justify and legitimise political manifestos that call for offensive military violence is even murkier.

Most intelligent people would understand that nothing in Life is 100% certain, and even President's make mistake. It is quite feasible and understandable that the Bush Administration may have just fucked up on the Intelligence. You know, to err is human and all that.

No, no, the ACTUAL whole crux of this debate, the REAL lies told by the Bush Administration, is just how CERTAIN they were about the threat posed by Hussein's Iraq.

Bush, Cheney, Powell, Rice and all the others, they didn't announce that they THOUGHT Hussein PROBABLY had WMD's. They didn't announce that they were keeping an eye on Hussein, just in case he started rattling his sabres again. They didn't announce that Hans Blix and the UN Inspectors had categorically and repeatedly stated that Iraq had no WMD's or any functioning WMD programme.

No, the Bush Administration, from the President downwards, announced repeatedly, incessantly, volubly and with great fanfare, and in response to ALL those who voiced doubt about Hussein's capability: that THEY WERE CERTAIN that Saddam Hussein had WMD's; and posed a clear and present danger to the United States and the World in general.

The lies were not about WMD's existence; they were about the CERTAINITY of the existence of WMD's in Iraq.

What is finally being revealed, at every step of the way since the Invasion, and with increasing authenticity (there's only really Colin Powell's memoirs left as the final nail...), is that the CERTAINTY with which the Bush Administration built the case for the Invasion of Iraq, was all a complete lie.

Now, are you going to tell me that in the run-up to the War, the Bush Administration was NOT adamantly certain about the necessity for the War?

Kindly show me an alternative US report that has the same authority as the 2002 CIA report that I posted above arguing that Saddam had no WMD's.

Shouldn't the "logical" thing be to first shoot down the CIA's own report on WMD's before inferring conspiracy theories and motives to the consumers of the intelligence reports (the White House and Congress)?

No, the "logical" (actually, common sense) thing to do, is to recognise that as its former Director is telling us, the CIA were as politically compromised by the Bush Administration as just about every other US governmental organisation - especially the State Department.

Why bother deconstructing the 2002 CIA report, when the Director who's name is upon it has already done so?

And look at your sneaky little caveat you snuck in there: "...an alternative US report that has the same authority as the 2002 CIA report..."

So, uh, that pretty much discounts any and all other reports doesn't it, because YOU are defining the standard for credibility. And let me guess, if I point you to Hans Blix' report, you'd just dismiss it out of hand as lacking credibility, because, uh, well, basically, George W. Bush didn't declare it credible, and it goes against everything he's ever said.

Ack, like I say, that's a mere attempt at a distraction on your part.

I'd far rather read you trying to explain how the certainty with which the Bush Administration sold the Iraq War to people like you, was actually reasoned ambiguity, as likely to be incorrect as it was correct. :)

(As though none of us were watching the News in 2002/3...)

Peace