[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]Actually, I think the vast majority of Iraqis killed since 2003 were victims of [b]thousands of individual terrorist attacks[/b] from radical Islamists in markets, schools, mosques, government buildings and police training centers.  Same deal with Afghanistan.[/color][/quote]

The difficulty in making the point about "terrorism" being a subjective and pejorative term, is that in doing so one can sound like one is tacitly approving of violent crimes.

Crimes against the Peace and crimes against Humanity are crimes whoever is committing them. Like I said to SomeGuy: I'm a Pacifist, so I no more condone the violent actions of Al Qaeda than I do the violent actions of the U.S. or British governments.

But I really do think that the emotive use of the term "terrorist" is unhelpful, precisely because of its subjective nature. It acts as a barrier to communication between people from the different cultures that are facing each other across an increasing divide.

We know exactly what the answers will be, if I ask you or SomeGuy whether you think the actions of Al Qaeda are terroristic, and whether the actions of the U.S. Government also are. And we know exactly what the answers will be if we ask the same questions of your peers in the Islamic World.

And there are plenty of people in the Western World too, who consider the actions of the U.S., British and Israeli governments terroristic. Just recently a warrant was issued in London for the arrest of the Israeli Foreign Minister, on (essentially) charges of terrorism.

Point is that "Terrorism" is a highly charged, completely emotive, entirely subjective, and therefore as far as I can see, an utterly useless term.

There are terms like "irregular" or "paramilitary" forces, "insurgents" or "non-state actors"; all of which are more accurate, more objective, and therefore more instructive.

But I suspect that the term "Terrorism" will remain with us for some time, simply because of its sheer propaganda value.

[face_peace]