[quote=SomeGuy][color=red]Terrorism is a global issue, and fortunately we have made some headway against it.[/color][/quote]

Oh poppet. No, "Terrorism" is just an adjective.

And a pejorative, subjectively applied by politicians to any enemy that doesn't either automatically submit to overwhelming force, or present itself on a field of battle to fight in serried ranks, a la the 18th and 19th Centuries.

It's just a matter of perspective really.

Revolutionaries in the American War of Independence would have been called terrorists, had the term been in common use in the mid-18th Century. As it was, it took the Jacobin "Reign of Terror" in Revolutionary France to give substance to the term, at the end of the 18th Century.

But from that point onwards, the term "Terrorist" was liberally applied to any group of people or organisation using unconventional tactics against a more conventional (and always more mighty) opponent.

Unless of course those people using unconventional tactics happened to be on your side, in which case they aren't "terrorists", but "noble resistance fighters", or "elite special forces".

You've even got a problem with the targeting of civilians as an indicator of terrorist status.

Conventional warfare, particularly aerial munitions, kill far more civilians than any "terrorist" outfit could ever dream of doing. 9/11 was the single biggest civilian death toll from any "terrorist" attack; but that civilian death toll pales when compared to say, the aerial bombardment of Iraq prior to the 2003 invasion.

But of course, civilian deaths, when caused by "our side", are just unfortunate "Collateral Damage" (most likely the result of "terrorists" using "Human Shields"...); as opposed to the moral outrages committed by those "terrorists" on the "other side". Even though the civilian deaths caused by "our side's" aerial and armoured bombardments are every bit as predictable and indiscriminate as anything in the "terrorist" arsenal.

Anyhoo, I'm merely pointing out the subjectivity of the term "terrorist", for your edification SG. It isn't a very helpful term to use, since it is too subjective and too emotive.

Human Society [i]does[/i] have a major problem with internecine violence, and it is a problem that really needs addressing. But labelling one violent group "terrorists" because they won't submit to the superior capacity for violence of another group, is no help at all.

[face_peace]