In Reply To #7

Well quite.

I think this comes down to a simple question:

What is the difference between Senator Kerry, and the kid who was asking the questions?

The instinctive answer is: that John Kerry is a U.S. Senator; and the kid, well, he's a nobody, just a kid.

But that completely undermines the Ideal of Democracy.

In a Real Democracy, there is *NO* difference between the Senator and the Student.

Both are U.S. Citizens; both have their Right to Free Speech Constitutionally protected; and both are co-equal participants in the Democratic Process.

That the Senator has been elected by other U.S. citizens to represent them in the Federal Legislature, is irrelevant. Since the U.S. is a democracy, the only difference between the Senator and the Student is that the Senator has been elected by his peers, to a position of full-time participation in the democratic process.

Quantatively and qualitatively then, there is no distinction between the Student and the Senator: they are both subject, equally, to the same Laws.

*BUT!* The consensus view seems to be that the Senator occupies some kind of hallowed position, as a human being in the democratic process; he is and should be held to a different standard than the Student.

The Senator may talk for as long as he chooses, about whatever he wants to (or can) talk about.

But not the Student.

Watching the video, one does not get the impression that the Student was attempting any kind of "agit-prop" hi-jacking of the event.

He has barely begun to ask his question, before he begins to be barracked by both the Senator, and those "officials" around him. When the Student *does* begin to sound agitated and excited, it is because he is being agitated by others.

At worst, the Student is guilty of being a nervous, excitable, passionate youth, feeling the adrenaline rush of talking to a former Presidential nominee.

I really don't see how that warrants the punishment he received.

He was *NOT* punished for speaking over his allotted time.

He was punished for going-off message, and appearing *NOT* to be a "Good American".

Peace