Damn all this festive consumerism and quasi-pagan celebrations! It's all kept me so busy that I've missed out on one of my favourite topics...

Alright: better late than never though. :)

OK, firstly, just to dispense with the obvious Foota-isms:

The foundations for the current Economic Meltdown stretch back principally to the Reagan (& Thatcher) Administration in the 1980's; but also further back through the Carter Administration to the Nixon Administration.

It was President Nixon who repealed the 1944 Bretton Woods International Agreement ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bretton_Woods_system ). The Bretton Woods System replaced the (more or less) International Gold Standard as a way of fixing international exchange rates, by setting the value of the U.S. Dollar at a fixed rate in relation to U.S. Gold Reserves; and then having all other currencies use the USD as the Standard in place of Gold.

This worked relatively well, right up until Nixon had to sell off most of the U.S.'s gold reserves, to pay for the War in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia. No more U.S. gold mean no more Bretton Woods; no more Bretton Woods meant that more or less the Whole World converted to Fiat Currencies (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiat_currency ).

Fiat currencies are currencies that are backed by Government fiat, rather than a commodity (gold) or currency (USD) standard. The idea being that confidence in a government replaced confidence in a particular commodity (Gold Standard) or currency (Bretton Woods System).

With a fiat currency, the amount of money that a National or Federal Central Bank can print, is not limited by the amount of gold or foreign currency reserves held. A government can print as much fiat currency as it chooses to; though of course, the more that it prints, the less it is worth.

OK, that's the monetary side of things.

Fiscal Policy covers things like taxation and regulation of the Finance Industry. The Glass-Stegall Act was established during the Great Depression in the 1930's, and was intended to prevent Retail (Deposit) Banks engaging in the same activities as Merchant (Investment) Banks.

One of the worst impacts of the Wall Street Crash in 1929 was that many Retail/Deposit Banks had used money they held in the savings accounts of members of the public, to invest (gamble) in the stock market. And when the stock market crashed, it meant that a lot of savers (not investors) lost their money as their banks collapsed.

The Glass-Stegall Act essentially separated the business of Retail and Investment Banks, to ensure that this sort of thing never happened again.

Wall Street began campaigning for the repeal of Glass-Stegall during the 1980's, but it wasn't until the twilight of the Clinton Presidency that the Glass-Stegall Act was finally repealed by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gramm-Leach-Bliley_Act ).

It should be noted that whilst the Democrat President Clinton authorised the Act, the three legislators whose names christened the bill, were all Republican - Senator Phil Gramm (R-Texas - also John McCain's Economics Advisor), and Representatives Jim Leach (R-Iowa) and Thomas J. Bliley, Jr. (R-Va.) The legislation passed in the Senate with 53 Republicans and one Democrat in favour, and 44 Democrats opposed.

From the moment that the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act was passed, Investment Banks were once again free to use the savings of retail depositors to make investments.

OK, next up, and at about the same time, came the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commodity_Futures_Modernization_Act_of_2000 ).

Once again, primarily a Republican piece of legislation, it was introduced into the House by Representative Thomas Ewing (R-IL), and co-sponsored by Representatives Thomas Bliley (R-VA - Him again!), Larry Combest (R-TX), John La Falce (D-NY - Wall Street's Representative) and Jim Leach (R-IA - and him again!). The bill was never debated in the House.

The companion bill was introduced in the Senate by Senator Richard Luger (R-IN), and co-sponsored by Senators Peter Fitzgerald (R-IL), Phil Gramm (R-TX - AGAIN!), Chuck Hagel (R-NE), Thomas Harkin (D-IA) and Tim Johnson (D-SD) - and also, never debated in the Senate.

Basically, it was the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 that, more than any other piece of legislation, paved the way for the next eight years of completely unregulated and un-overseen activities of Wall Street's Financial activities. Without the CFMA, there could have been no CDO/MBS/Debt Bubble.

OK, but let's be clear, neither of the two main political parties in the U.S. can absolve themselves of complicity in laying the ground-work for the current Economic catastrophe. Both parties have Senators and Representatives that are owned (in every sense of the word) by Wall Street and America's FIRE (Finance, Insurance & Real Estate) Sector. And it's a pretty academic exercise to try and point the finger of blame at one party and not the other.

However, there was one person (or rather, one government official) who presided over the escalation of the current Economic Catastrophe, who had he acted earlier, could have prevented, or at least averted the worst effects of this crisis.

Only President Bush had the power invested in his office to take Executive action to avert or mitigate the creation and effects of the greatest Debt Bubble in Economic History. The outcome of the unregulated activities of Wall Street, during the period 2000 - 2006, was entirely and completely predictable; and indeed, [b]*WAS*[/b] entirely and completely predicted by many economists and financiers throughout that period.

But President Bush either chose to do nothing, or was completely unaware that he could or should do something.

Guess he was too distracted by trying to follow in the footsteps of Alexander the Great...

But what the hell, playing the Blame Game about this Economic Crisis, is as pointless now as blaming Bush for any and all the travesties he has wrought on the American Population, and History in general.

Point being that everything is so fucked up now, that blaming the Lamest of Presidential Ducks in History, doesn't really get anyone anywhere, and can't really provide any comfort. The real work now is to try and figure out how to find a way out of the mess.

And the mess, as Peter Schiff so clearly and inarguably describes, is one of debt - masses and masses of debt.

The entire Global Capitalist System is riddled with cancerous debt; debt that has been created and pyramided by the unfettered and unregulated activities of Wall Street (and City of London) financiers and investment banks, since the beginning of this Century.

Now for more than half-a-Century, the prevailing and uncontested American ideology has been about "Free Market Capitalism". Never mind that there never was such a thing, the [b]*IDEA*[/b] of "Free Market [sic]" Capitalism was maintained in juxtaposition to those dreaded words, Socialism and Communism. The idea that the State should, would or could intervene in any way, with the activities of "Free Market Enterprise", was anathema to any Red-Blooded American.

However, as soon as the wheels came off - and the "Wheels" have [b]*ABSOLUTELY*[/b] come off now - all these "Free Market" demagogues have gone running to the Government for entirely Socialist rescue/bailout packages. And in many cases, these rescue packages have involved Nationalising (or Socialising) what previously were bastions of the "Free Market", American Capitalist Dream.

Unfortunately, as President Carter predicted in 1980, those who "...choose to live in a dream, will wake-up in a nightmare."

And it really is a nightmare: a nightmare of debt.

Now the prevailing, uh, "wisdom", is to transfer all the Finance Sector debt that has been run-up these last eight years, and turn it into Public Debt (i.e. debt owed by the tax-payer, rather than the Finance Industry). This, it is argued, will allow the Finance Sector to create [b]*EVEN MORE DEBT*[/b], which will then revitalise the (all-ready debt-riddled) Economy.

This is the equivalent of a doctor prescribing the injection of more cancerous cells, into a body already overcome by cancer.

The only feasible solution available, is actually to take from the Playbook so relentlessly advocated by "Free Market" ideologues these past few decades. And that is to let the Institutions that are overcome with the debt they have taken on-board, to fall by the wayside: to let the weak fail.

It makes no sense at all to transfer the debt that has been so recklessly generated by these banks and finance institutions, onto the Public Balance Sheet. Apart from anything else, the Public Balance Sheet can no more cope with the scale of debt that exists, than the banks and investment houses can.

The question though, is whether it is more appropriate to let a few (previously) venerable (but now discredited) Finance and Banking Houses fall; or let the Economy of an entire Society fall.

Logically, since the collapse of the entire Society's Economy will [b]*ALSO*[/b] mean the collapse of those same Finance and Banking Houses; yet the collapse of the Finance and Banking Houses doesn't automatically mean the collapse of Society's Economy: it is obvious that the debt-riddled Finance, Insurance, Real-Estate and Automotive Industries should be allowed to fail, without taking [b]*ALL*[/b] of the U.S. Economy with it.

What will be left of the U.S. Economy when/if these institutions and organisations are allowed to fail will be a shadow of its former self; but at least it will still exist. The only alternative is for the entire U.S. Economy to go bankrupt under the weight of the debt created by the former "Masters of the Universe" on Wall Street, and in Detroit.

It's a no brainer, obviously.

However, the fact of the matter is that those ex-Masters of the Universe hold far more political leverage on Capitol Hill, than all the common-or-garden variety U.S. Citizens put together.

And that, it seems, means that the legislators owned by Wall Street, will put Wall Street's immediate, short-term interests ahead of the long-term interests of those Citizens whom their positions exist to serve.

Which is a shame really.

[face_peace]