[quote=JFitch][color=firebrick] I've known too many people who did this, and they were very happy to live with the bare minimum, so long as they didn't have to work very hard for it. It's sort of strange how people get "get used to" a sub-standard (by our standards), standard of living.[/color][/quote]

Is it not the case that some people are simply resigned to a situation that you seem to be suggesting they are content with?

There is the sociological issue that people who are born into a particular socio-economic condition may not have the psychological apparatus that would equip them to raise themselves from the mire. If they do not or can not believe themselves to be capable of changing their station in life, can we call ourselves a caring society if we condemn them to wallow in their own poverty?

Our governments spend billions of dollars with the claimed intent to improve the lot of foreigners living in the Third World. Your government has incurred expenses of more than two trillion dollars, apparently with the intention of improving life for 25 million Iraqis  - that's about $80,000 per Iraqi. In addition to all that money so far making very little difference to individual Iraqis, don't you think that there are many Americans who would have benefited far more from it?

Is it not inconsistent that our governments are willing to spend such vast sums, with a claimed altruistic intent, on foreigners who make no financial contribution to our societies; and yet are so unwilling to spread that wealth amongst our own communities?

[quote=JFitch][color=firebrick]I also believe that giving the rich more of their money gives them an incentive to make more, and spend more, and not always look for loopholes in the tax code so that they don't have to give it to the government. They are smart people (or have smart people working for them), so they know that the free market is a better place to invest their money than the government. Let them invest it, and everyone will reap the benefits.[/color][/quote]

But don't these smart people realise that they can both take their money back [b]*AND*[/b] continue to look for loopholes in the tax system?

I'm reasonably well off, well enough off to employ my own accountant on a retainer, who looks out for my interests by enabling me to avoid paying as much tax as is legally possible. And this is something he will always do - since it is what I pay him for - regardless of how beneficent the UK government is with the tax demands it makes of me.

But not everyone in the UK is in the same position I am in: I earn more; therefore I am able to afford to pay less.

The argument you posit about the rich re-investing their money is called "Supply Side Economics", and was popularised during the Reagan and Thatcher Administrations in the U.S. and U.K. during the 1980's. But reliant as it is on the good will and social mindedness of those benefiting from such a policy, it has been of dubious positive effect.

When George W. Bush came to office in 2001, he inherited a record budget surplus from the Clinton Administration that allowed him to make the tax cuts he did, arguing exactly as you do that the positive effects of the tax cuts would "trickle down" through the rest of the U.S. Economy.

Eight years later, and the U.S. now has a record budget deficit, and its manufacturing and industrial base has been gutted by off-shoring and out-sourcing. Middle- and Working-Class incomes have stagnated, and the only sectors of the Economy showing mild growth in employment, are in domestic, non-tradable jobs such as food serving, house cleaning, and the Public Sector.

Clearly the effects of Bush's Supply Side Economic policies have not "trickled down" to the wider American populace.

[quote=JFitch][color=firebrick]The current social programs are a drain on our society because they aren't managed properly, and funds are distributed without much accountability. I thought it was funny how when Bush signed the "No Child Left Behind" policy, so many liberals were crying foul. It wasn't the perfect legislation, but one of the things I agreed with was it's insistence on accountability and results. The government, by nature, is a monopoly in what it does. It doesn't have to compete, so it doesn't have to change. It just gets more and more jumbled, and throws more and more money away. The social programs need an overhaul, and some real accountability enforced. There are too many people abusing the system, and if those people were cut out, then the people who really needed the help would get it and get off of it in time.[/color][/quote]

I think the main issue here is with centralised (read: bureaucratised) control of Federal assistance problem.

The problem with Federally mandated metrics for accountability and results is that they can't take into account the specific local factors that affect the delivery and effectiveness of assistance programs.

I think it would be far more sensible to distribute the available funds to local community operations, and let the local communities determine how best to distribute and apportion funds.

If there was a community in say Los Angeles, which felt that Federal assistance funds should be distributed to individuals with no accountability or result requirements, then that would be up to that community. And if there was another community in Louisville that required welfare recipients to meet certain standards of eligibility and deservedness, then that would be fine too.

Each community would determine the best way to distribute available funds, and the positive or negative effects of these locally determined policies would accord with that community's moral and political sensibilities.

Trying to establish a "One Size Fits All" policy for the entire Nation, can only really produce an aid mechanism that doesn't really help anyone.

[quote=JFitch][color=firebrick]Jesus wasn't making a broad statement that all Christians should go and sell everything. He was pointing out the sin of greed to the rich young ruler who claimed he kept the law perfectly. That's not a proof text for Communism, or anything involving broad economics for a Christian. If you would like the economic principles taught by the Bible, I would be glad to share them with you.[/color][/quote]

Oh, that's okay JF, the Bible and Christianity is your bag, not mine. I wouldn't presume to be better versed in Biblical liturgy or principles than you.

I don't imagine you'd be too interested in any passages from the Bhagavad Gita or Tibetan Book of the Dead that I might produce, since these documents hold no more relevance for you than the Bible does for me.

I do think that there are Articles of Compassion that are common to all religious texts; and it is this sentiment, rather than the letters of "The Word" that I was appealing to.

Peace