[quote=SomeGuy[PCNC]][color=red]Except you are forgetting Holyman. Keynesian economics has blatantly failed in the last 5 years.

4 European countries (and several more like the UK) are either in imminent danger of currency collapse/debt default or on unsustainable standings.[/color][/quote]

Ooop, looks like SomeGal is holding out on you once more. :)

Right, let's clear a few things up SG.

Firstly, all I did was describe Keynesian Economic Theory in its simplest form. You shouldn't imply from my description that I'm an ardent supporter of Keynesianism. All I did was lay out the facts for those who might be familiar with the term, but unfamiliar with what it referred to.

Secondly, Keynesian Economic Theory  only applies - is only brought into play - during recessionary or depressive Economic periods.

What we have had for the last eight years or so has been far from an Economic recession; we have instead been through a period of Economic expansion, albeit fuelled by (private sector) debt.

The only significant Developed World government deficit spending there has been during this period, was President Bush's financing of the U.S.'s "Defence" Budget. Most other Western Nations have been enjoying surplus tax revenues and have been keeping their budgets more or less balanced.

Now what we have seen in national governments' responses to the Banking Crisis, is a massive transferral of debt from the Finance Sector to the Pubic Sector. This are the multi-trillion dollar bail-outs that you are talking about.

And they have nothing to do with Keynesianism.

Nowhere in John Maynard Keynes' theories, did he advocate government underwriting the reckless expansion of Finance Sector Debt. The bedrock principle of Keynesianism is that government should borrow money in order to finance Public Sector services and infrastructure work in order to create jobs, increase consumer spending power, and kick-start moribund Economies.

Pouring money into black-holes of debt created by the Banking Sector is entirely antithetical to Keynes' theories, since such action reduces the ability of governments to spend on projects and services that will create jobs.

What we have seen over the last couple of years, with our governments' responses to the Debt Crisis, is more akin to the Oligarchism that characterised post-Soviet Russia. Where government legislation and policy overwhelmingly favoured and stimulated the growth of a very narrow, extremely powerful group of individuals, at the expense of a wider national prosperity.

Like I say SG, I'm not necessarily advocating Keynesianism as a universal panacea to the World's Economic problems. Personally, I favour a complete overhaul of our Political-Economic structures and systems, and I think Keynesianism is just a way of maintaining the Boom-Bust Cycle we are all so familiar with.

But tell me SG: given that it is virtually impossible for the Private Sector to create and fuel rapid job growth in a recession/depression, how would you propose re-igniting the Economy?

[face_peace]