[quote=Raider624924236][color=sienna]He was being a dick to LEO. Refusing to get out of the car? Cops say get out, you get out, you want to be a dick about it, get what you deserve. For evey dickhead that refuses to get out, there is a serious asshole who will shoot the cops who are trying to get him to get out. Those cops have the right to go home to their family too.[/color][/quote]

I think it cuts to the heart of the role that the Police and Law Enforcement Officials are supposed to play in Society.

Remember that police officers are just citizens in uniform, who have additional powers to detain and arrest other citizens they suspect of breaking the Law.

What police officers are not, is some kind of supra-authority who are permitted to order other citizens around according to their whim, as though those citizens were some kind of military subordinate.

Just because a cop says get out of your car, you don't have to get out of your car. That isn't how it works, especially if the cop is being a dick about it.

The police officer has to explain why he or she wants you to do whatever they want you to do, within the context of the Law and their legally mandated powers.

Of course, in the normal run of events, a law abiding citizen has no reason to fear anything that a Law Enforcement Official is doing, and it is sensible and courteous to comply with whatever reasonable requests the officer may make of that citizen whilst he or she is discharging his duties.

However, it is also evident that there is a very small minority of Law Enforcement Officers who imagine that their status gives them an authority to arbitrarily order members of the public around, and they demand unquestioning obedience from those citizens. These citizens-in-uniform assume powers of control over the public that they don't, in legal fact, actually possess.

But as you say Raider, Law Enforcement Officers run a high risk of encountering those "serious assholes who will shoot the cops",  and so, given the degree of danger involved in their jobs, we citizens who enjoy their protection should really make allowances for the fact that some police officers are going to err on the side of caution when they encounter someone who could potentially threaten them or their fellow officers safety.

I think in situations like the one in Bunny's video, the police assaults we saw in London at the G20 protests, and that one a few weeks back where that police officer kicked the shit out of that girl in the cells, what we are seeing is an unhappy confluence where a dickhead citizen meets a dickhead police officer.

Non-dickhead police officers can usually handle dickhead citizens without too much trouble; and non-dickhead citizens can usually handle dickhead police officers. But when [b]BOTH[/b] parties are dickheads... Well, that's when we see stuff like this.

It has to be borne in mind though that hundreds of thousands of Law Enforcement Officials are interacting with millions of citizens every day; that unfortunate incidents like these attract the attention that they do, shows how incredibly rare they are.

[face_peace]