[quote="bigdaddydrew"][color=#BF0040]I'm not sure I'm putting this down coherently as I'm trying to cram this post in before I leave work...so maybe it can be picked apart....[/color][/quote]

Very coherently, as it goes Drew: great post.

[quote="bigdaddydrew"][color=#BF0040]I guess it boils down to this:  I'm conservative, I feel people should be responsible for their decisions in life, I don't want or like handouts, I don't like my hard-earned money going to those I feel thumb their nose at these values.  But it sure as hell feels like capitalism has created a monster that is stifling capitalism and I don't know what the fucking answer is.[/color][/quote]

I've resisted labels like "Conservative" and "Liberal" all my Life.

Of course, if someone held a gun to my head and forced me to pick one camp or t'other, I'd almost certainly pick the camp on the Left... But only *ALMOST* certainly.

What I definitely am is a Systems Consultant. I always have been. Even in my very young childhood when I was taking my brothers' toys apart to see how they worked (and having learned, would then take apart my own toys, with the confidence I could put them back together!).

And as a Systems Consultant, I can tell when a System is out of whack.

I've always been generally agnostic about what a System is for - or what it is used for. My Spiritual Philosophy allows for people to rape, murder and generally destroy each other (if that's what they want to do), and/or to make as much money as they feel they need to make themselves happy.

My only issue has always been: does it work?

For example, I'm not a Pacifist out of some ingrained sense of moral responsibility: I'm a Pacifist because my understanding of History, and my own personal experience of violence (organised and disorganised), has led me to the conclusion that violence is *ALWAYS* ineffective.

That is: utilising violence is ineffective if what you are trying to achieve is Peace. (If you are trying to generate *MORE* violence in the World, then I would strongly recommend using violence... That will get you just what you are looking for.)

Equally, if "Capitalism" is a System supported by many people because they see it as the fairest and most effective way of materially rewarding those who most deserve reward...

I'd have to say: sorry, but "Capitalism" in its current form is definitely *NOT* giving you what you want.

But here's the nub of the issue: what *IS* "Capitalism"?

Or, for that matter, what are "Conservatives" and what are "Liberals"?

I think the core of the problem is that there is a substantial disconnect between what we believe those terms to mean, and what it is they actually refer to.

We so instinctively (programmatically?) run to "our" Team's Colours, and are so quick to criticise the obvious flaws and problems with the *OTHER* Team's Systems, that we rarely pause to consider if what we are so rigorously and automatically defending, is what we actually believe in.

Of course we can (and do) defend Capitalism as a far superior system for financial and Economic Management than say, Communism or Socialism. But when we do, are we really certain that we are actually defending the *PRACTICE* of Capitalism (as we understand it should be practiced)? Or are we just defending the *THEORY* of Capitalism?

Same thing when we defend our "Conservative" politicians: of course we defend Conservative Theory, because that's what we believe in; but are our politicians really demonstrating Conservative principles? Or are they just claiming to be "Conservative", in order to maintain our support?

Exactly the same question can and should be asked of our "Liberal" politicians.

To look at just a single example - and you've already touched on this Drew:

Conservative-Capitalist Principle requires that individuals and organisations should not look to the State for support or financial subsidy. This is based on the understanding that those individuals and organisations are less likely to maximise their performance and productivity, if they feel that there is a safety net in the event of failure.

When a Government underwrites risk (risk of unemployment; or risk of business failure), it inserts itself into the lives and activities of individuals and businesses. This undermines the drive and motivation of individuals and businesses to succeed. Stronger and more self-reliant individuals and businesses must create a stronger and more secure Society, than one where everyone looks to the Government to "Mother" them.

That's the Theory, and given a contemporary understanding of the Human Condition, it is virtually impossible to dispute.

But is that what we have got? Is that how our Capitalist Systems are working?

Well, partially.

Individuals certainly are discouraged from relying on the Government. Access to Welfare payments is tightly controlled; and if you do manage to qualify for Welfare Assistance, it is hardly sufficient to assure the kind of Lifestyle that even a moderate amount of effort could secure (despite the scare stories of people living opulent lifestyles on Welfare hand-outs...).

And it's much the same for Small-to-Medium-sized Enterprises. They are pretty much left to their own devices (so long as they pay their taxes), to succeed or fail on their own merits.

But what about very large Enterprises? What about "Too Big To Fail" Banks? Is the same "Conservative-Capitalist" Theory applied in their cases?

Of course not.

As a [url=http://www.thenewamerican.com/usnews/constitution/item/18120-princeton-northwestern-study-seems-to-conclude-u-s-an-oligarchy]recent Princeton/Northwestern Study concludes[/url], the largest and most wealthy businesses have a very different relationship with Government, than that experienced by private citizens and small businesses.

The Problem is the disconnection between Capitalist Theory and current "Capitalist" Practice.

Capitalist Theory worked relatively well when it referred to Industrial Capitalism. If you could produce a good or service for which demand existed or could be created, then you were well on your way to financial success. And who could or would begrudge someone being rewarded for their own ingenuity and hard work?

But Industrial Capitalism has now given way to Finance Capitalism. And the only thing that you need to generate money in a Finance Capitalist System, is money.

The more money you have, the more easily you can get more money.

That's it. Nothing else to it.

No convoluted or drawn-out Economic Theory; no moral positioning about the Rights of Man; no consideration of Risk-Reward Dynamics.

If you've got a lot of money, then it is easy to get even more money.

In itself, that doesn't seem such a bad thing: to get on that Gravy Train, all that is needed is to get a little bit of money together, and away you go. Surely..?

Problem is that "money" is a relative notion.

You may have some coins in your pocket or notes in your wallet, so technically, you "have money"; but really, these days, unless you've got $10 million of liquid funds at your instant disposal, you don't really *HAVE MONEY*.

And the Problem in the System is that that threshold - the amount of actual money required to figuratively "Have Money" - just keeps on rising. This is because those who *MOST DEFINITELY* "Have Money", can accumulate even more money, faster than they can spend it.

Up to and including the point where even when their most reckless speculation should have left them pot-less and shirt-less, they can turn to the individuals they paid to go into "Government", and demand a "Welfare Payment" that dwarfs anything ever distributed to all the "Welfare Queens" in the World!

Now like I said, I'm pretty much agnostic about what a System is used for. I *CAN* see that there is a systemic problem with a dynamic where material wealth is exponentially concentrating in a shrinking group of individuals. But if everyone understands that is what is happening (and what *MUST* happen, given the way The System currently operates), then that's fine.

But when I hear people supporting and defending a form of Capitalism - a Theory of Capitalism - that has absolutely no relation to the current practice of Capitalism... I have to think..:

Umm, hold on a minute... You *DO* know that the theory and principles you are so vigorously defending have absolutely no relation to current practice? Don't you?

I mean, of *COURSE* Capitalism (as the term is generally understood) is more practical and purposeful than Communism (as *THAT* term is generally understood). But to the best of my knowledge, most everyone else acknowledges that too; and there doesn't seem to be much competition from Communism these days...

But Capitalism (as the term is generally understood) is *ALSO* much, much more purposeful and effective than the way that Finance Capitalism (as that term is barely understood...) is practiced today.

So whilst we are busy defending our belief in Capitalism against an outmoded and discredited ideology that hasn't really been a threat since the early 1980's; we seem to have failed to notice that a much greater threat to Capitalism (as we perceive that term) is metastasizing from an internal corruption of that Theory, namely: Finance Capitalism.

And I think that is a paradigm that is True of so many areas of our lives, and is (to wrench this post back to the theme I was on above... Howzat!), particularly apparent in the American psyche:

That we can become so obsessed with and consumed by defending against perceived external dangers, that we fail to notice the emergence of far more threatening internal threats.