When Sir Robert Peel established the Metropolitan Police Force in London, in 1829, he was adamant that his "Bobbies"/"Peelers" should represent policing of the People, by the People. He deliberately chose a blue uniform for the Police officers to wear, to distinguish them from the red, grey and green coats worn by the British Army.

The principle he wanted to enshrine was that Police officers would simply be members of any given community who put themselves forward to serve as upholders of the Law and preservers of the Peace.

That, I think, is the distinction that has become increasingly lost in recent years, particularly since the beginning of the current Century, and the number of "Wars..." declared (by politicians) on criminal and terrorist activity.

Very clearly, we are seeing the increased and on-going militarisation of our Police forces.

This does not create the effects or results that Robert Peel intended, nor does it help serving Police officers to do their jobs correctly and with the support of the communities they are supposed to belong to.

There is such a thing as Martial Law. It exists within the Constitutions of most Western Democracies; and it allows for the deployment of the Military to keep order. But politicians are loath to invoke Martial Law because (aside from it usually being totally unnecessary) the term itself carries a strong whiff of Totalitarianism, and that tends to emphasise that politicians have lost the support of the People.

So instead, we have the para-militarisation of civilian Police Forces to contend with.

Distil it down to the bare essentials, and a Law Enforcement Officer's role in Society is to, uh, enforce the Law... Whereas a soldier's role in Society is to kill people who threaten that Society.

The two functions require different personal qualities, different forms of training, and very different social and political mandates.

To get a soldier to kill another human being requires that soldier to be conditioned to see that other human being as "The Enemy". "The Enemy" can be dehumanised; can be presented as a lethal threat, expressly intent on killing the soldier's fellow citizens, including their family. "The Enemy" has to be neutralised; not understood, sympathised with, or recognised as a fellow human being who is (unfortunately and currently) presenting a threat to our Society.

That should not be a description of the role of a Police/Law Enforcement Officer.

A Police Officer is supposed to be like a school prefect: one of the pupils who has been given the additional responsibility of helping the teachers maintain a necessary level of order and discipline.

Police officers primarily serve to act as visible representatives of (democratic) Civilian Law: to be the "eyes, ears and voice" of the Law. Ideally, their presence is meant to dissuade people from breaking the law, because the Police officers will act as unimpeachable witnesses to any crime that is committed.

But since it is not feasible (or even desirable) to have Police officers everywhere, at all times, Police officers are also tasked with investigating crimes, identifying criminal suspects, and presenting evidence and those suspects to Courts of Law where their guilt or innocence can be established.

This isn't a perfect dynamic, since Police officers are generally regarded (or constrained) to be responsible for proving a suspect's guilt, rather than establishing their innocence. A "win" for a Police officer is the successful prosecution of a criminal suspect; and this has tended to encourage miscarriages of justice, where individual police officers have looked only for evidence of guilt, and have ignored or concealed evidence of innocence.

But that is why Police officers have never had the mandate to be "Judge, Jury and Executioner": their role is solely to present those accused of crimes, and any evidence gathered to support those accusations, to a properly constituted Law Court; where guilt or innocence (with the presumption of innocence) can be objectively and transparently established.

That's the theory, anyway.

Contrast all this with much of what we learn today about the behaviour of Police officers, and it is not difficult to see the way in which 21st Century Policing has departed from the principles laid down by Robert Peel.

Is it a problem caused by the cops themselves?

I am not sure that it is.

Being a Police Officer (particularly in the United States) is a difficult and dangerous job. Very few of us who are not police officers, start our day at work not knowing if we are going to be alive at the end of it. But that is the reality for many police officers whose duties include patrolling our streets and neighbourhoods.

And given the potential lethality of their occupations, the complex social, political and legal issues they need to observe, and the way that Members of the Public often treat Police Officers as direct representatives or projections of politicians and State Power...

...Are we as a Society really ensuring that we are selecting the right people for that particularly important and responsible role?

You know, if in 2016, a sufficient majority of American People vote Hilary Clinton for President, and a few weeks after she moves into the Oval Office, she launches the U.S.'s nuclear arsenal at Russia... Who would really be to blame for that? Hilary Clinton..? Or the people that gave her the launch codes?

If we pay Police Officers peanuts, we are going to get monkeys enforcing the Law.

I don't mean any disrespect to those police officers who are thrilled to be earning as much as they are. I know they mean well, and I'm sure they start off believing they want to do some good with their jobs. But the fact of the matter is that Policing in the Modern World is an incredibly complex activity, requiring much more intelligence than mere brawn and bravery.

Oh sure, when the chips are down, and the bullets are flying: you really do want someone strong and fearless to be shooting back...

But surely the main objective of a Police Officer (or "Peace Officer", as they sometimes used to be called) is to stop things escalating to the point where the bullets start flying?

That takes intelligence. It takes awareness, understanding, and most importantly of all, a strong degree of empathy and personal identification with those being Policed.

I cannot agree that the problem or fault lies with the poor, terrified and less than super-intelligent patrol cops, whose actions frequently create situations with unnecessarily tragic outcomes.

The problem lies with us.

We don't want to pay our Police Officers enough to attract the best and brightest among us; and we sure as hell don't want to volunteer to do the job ourselves.

If we're going to fix this situation, we certainly do need to remind Police Officers that they are meant to be a part of the Communities they are policing; but much more importantly, we have to remind ourselves that these ladies and gentlemen in uniform are people just like us, doing a job that we absolutely need to be done.

Because we all have too much to lose when the trust between the Police and the Policed breaks down.

Stephen Winspear lives and works in the Metropolitan Police District of London, England. He can be reached at: stephen@1person.com