[quote=ManusJustus][color=green]Big business and the free market gave us the advice that led to the mess we are in now. I would like to see the businessmen who are responsible be punished, at least in the monetary since (no reason to get paid 80 million dollars on leaving the company you ran into the ground).  However, letting the financial system crash would be disasterous to the American economy.  I find myself agreeing with Bush for once, there is no reason not to advert certain chaos by letting these financial giants self-destruct and take their customers and our economy with them.[/color][/quote]

Problem is Manus, that "Bush's" plan isn't a rescue at all, it is merely a deferral at best.

The plan spreads the problem out from the Banking System, to include the wider U.S. (and by extension, Global) Economic System, by making U.S. tax payers carry the burden of the toxic debt created by bankers.

The key thing to remember is that the United States Government has no money with which to buy up all this toxic debt: the U.S. is completely insolvent. The money that will be used for "Bush's" plan, will be borrowed, mostly from the Chinese, Russians and Saudis; and only then if those countries governments are willing to lend the U.S. the money - which is by no means certain, particularly in Russia's case.

And even if the U.S. can borrow the money (some $750 billion), it will increase the U.S. National Debt to $11.5 trillion, which is very close to America's total GDP. A country which owes its entire GDP in debt, is considered by [b]*ALL*[/b] accounts - particularly those of the IMF and World Bank - to be bankrupt.

It really is only a matter of weeks, if not days, before there is a run on the U.S. Dollar, as foreign Central Banks and Sovereign Investment Funds decide to cut their losses and dump the increasingly worthless Greenback.

But even in the highly unlikely event that this does not happen, the U.S. tax payer will still be stuck with having to pay back the enormous debt that the Bush Administration has run up for it.

Presently, every U.S. taxpayer is paying $2,000 a year each, merely to service the U.S. National Debt, without actually paying back any of the principal. There can be no repayment of the principal, because of the record budget deficit that Bush has been running ever since his tax cuts and the launch of his "War on Terror".

I'm really not sure that many Americans have fully grasped the fundamentals of the situation they are now in.

We listen to a lot of Right-Wingers talk about how hard-pressed Americans don't deserve state-funded Health Insurance, or Income Support, or any other socialised assistance. But what you have at the moment is a situation where the Bush Administration will have given more than 1 and a half trillion dollars (all of it borrowed) to Wall Street bankers and investors, to recompense them for the exceedingly bad debts and even worse decisions they have made - against all sensible advice - these last five years.

The "explanation" is that it is necessary to do this, to save the wider Economy; but this is bullshit of the highest order.

Nothing the Bush Administration has done, or can do, can prevent the collapse of the U.S. Economy and a Global Dollar meltdown. All it can do - all it is [b]*TRYING*[/b] to do - is stave off the worst effects of this unavoidable Economic Crash, until after it leaves office.

And putting off facing up to the problem fully, means that when the reckoning finally takes place, it will only be much, much worse.

By his own admission, President Bush was "unaware of the scale of the problem", until only the end of last week. This doesn't surprise me in the least. I still don't believe that he can personally be fully aware of the fundamental economic catastrophe that has been created during his Presidency. But even if he is, he's not the kind of person who is going to have a clue how to limit the damage being caused.

Buying up all the toxic debt created and owned by the Banks relieves the bankers who were, until very recently, enjoying huge annual bonuses - of a billion dollars or more in many cases. Since the U.S. is insolvent, it must plead with governments the Bush Administration has been antagonising for the last eight years to borrow the funds to allow it to do this.

There is no ideology or morality on Earth that states that such statist intervention should be carried out on behalf of the ultra-wealthy investment bankers who created this situation. Passing the borrowed money onto U.S. mortgage holders to give them a repayment holiday would be a far more sensible and morally justifiable way of circulating those funds back to the bankers.

But whilst the Bush Administration will bail out the irresponsible Wall Street players who created this situation, its craven ideology forbids it from acknowledging that "Trickle-Down" Economic Theory is a bust, and allowing the funds it will try to borrow this week to be given to America's middle class, and let that money trickle [b]*UP*[/b] to Wall Street.

It is the final and most catastrophic exposure of the Bush Administration as, without any doubt, the worst thing to ever happen to the United States of America in its entire History.

[face_peace]