[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]Holyman - the damage was already done by 2004-05 at the peak of the housing bubble.  These things don't happen overnight and I have already detailed at length the policies from the 1990's that created the housing bubble.

Is there [b]anything[/b] Bush (and the Republican Congress) could have done between 2004-2006 to prevent the meltdown - i.e. correction?  If so - would their government prescriptions be more or less painful then the market corrections we are facing today?[/color][/quote]

Oh, definitely less painful.

At least for the majority of people, if not the minority...

Raising interest rates early on, at the first sign of the Housing Bubble expanding, would have been the most sensible thing to do. It would have reduced the number of people qualifying for mortgage borrowing, and raised the cost of home ownership whilst either reducing the value of property, or more likely limiting property price inflation. As an added bonus, raising interest rates would also have helped the U.S. Dollar maintain its value on Foreign Exchanges.

The problem, however, with raising interest rates is that it cuts business and consumer spending. Since the end of the Dot.Com Bubble, the U.S. has only been kept out of recession by an expansion of consumer spending; virtually all of it on credit.

See, "reckless" mortgage borrowing is only really the most visible and obvious contributor to the "Credit Crunch". Of equal effect has been consumer borrowing on credit cards and unsecured loans, to fund extravagant consumer lifestyles: people buying cars and taking holidays that they could only get their hands on because of the availability of cheap credit. The conjunction of reckless borrowing for property and lifestyle has been the withdrawal of vast amounts of money from the equity market, through the facility of re-mortgaging.

This is where someone who had, say, a $100,000 mortgage they used to originally buy their property, suddenly finds their property worth $300,000 or more. They are persuaded by a combination of their financiers and neighbours to take out a second mortgage, to release the equity in their homes. This is quite a sensible thing to do if the additional money you borrow is reinvested in home improvement; but not so sensible if you spend the money on an expensive car, lavish holiday, and a plasma TV the size of Wyoming.

Had the Bush Administration mandated a rise in interest rates, then consumer spending (on credit) would have been curtailed, as would the rate of property price inflation have been. But without consumer spending, the U.S. Economy would have fallen into recession, and the Bush Administration didn't seem to want to allow that to happen.

Understandable, you might say. But the point about using monetary policy (as opposed to fiscal policy) to tackle economic contraction, is that monetary policy is a very blunt instrument. At best, all that keeping interest rates low could do, was to off-set or delay the final reckoning. Expanding consumer spending on credit, whilst technically keeping the economy afloat, does so only a life-raft of increasing debt. Sooner or later, the bills will need paying. And the longer that final reckoning was delayed, the greater the final debt that would need to be repaid.

Which is what is happening now.

The other, much more direct action the Bush Administration could have done, between 2004-2006, is firstly to have [b]*STOPPED*[/b] relaxing regulation and oversight of Wall Street; and then to have re-instated all the regulation and oversight that they and the Clinton Administration had removed.

This would have prevented Wall Street creating all the arcane, complex and opaque new derivative instruments it did. It would have prevented investment banks engaging in essentially consumer-related financial activities. And it would have curtailed the obscenely large bonuses that Wall Street bankers and brokers were paying themselves.

Any of these actions could have taken place prior to the expansion of the Property Bubble and Debt Derivatives Markets. And any and all of these actions [b]*SHOULD*[/b] have taken place, when the scale of the Bubble and the volatility of the new financial markets became clear in 2003/2004.

Oh, there would have been some pain then Foota, but mostly for the bankers on Wall Street, and the much lower number of consumers who had recklessly borrowed. But the pain for them would have been much less than it is now; and everyone else would have nothing more than a slight twinge.

It's the difference between a controlled explosion; and letting an Economic Nuke explode unpredictably and catastrophically.

This is not a partisan issue Foota. This is nothing to do with political ideology or Economic sensibility.

This has everything to do with one of the primary responsibilities of the President of the United States being to look after the National Security of the United States of America, and the welfare of its citizens.

Through either negligence, incompetence, ignorance, or an obsession with military adventurism in the Middle East, the Administration tasked with looking after the welfare and security of the United States, has signally failed to manage the American Economy.

As a result, the United States is now completely insolvent, and virtually bankrupt; and the Rest of the World now faces significant (though not equivalent) economic hardship.

The Bush Administration could have acted sooner, and it should have acted sooner.

But it didn't.

And now Americans, and to a lesser extent the Rest of Humanity, will pay the price.

Peace