[quote="bigdaddydrew"][color=#8000FF]I do remember those feelings as a kid though......lost them pretty quickly as realization of motives behind most modern wars are nothing worth my life.  But I do think that a hunter/warrior lifestyle is what men were born to.  With out the just reason to throw down you get generations of kids playing war on computers and shooting each other over shirt colors.

We need a good war to come along...one we can all get behind.  Red Dawn...fuck yeah

We want war until it happens, then we pray that it happens no more....for a while at least, until that generation is no longer around to remind us why we shouldn't want it.  Must be nature's way of pruning the landscape.[/color][/quote]

Well, if you take a look at Nature, it becomes clear that all the macho displays of aggression - particularly the passive displays such as enormous tusks, fearsome colouring or loud roars - are in fact all ways of trying to *AVOID* fighting.

Truth is that in Nature, when it comes to intra-species violence, there are never any winners.

When two males of the same species square-off against each other for access to breeding females or territory, the idea is to put on such a fearsome *DISPLAY*, that there is never any need for actual violence. This is because even the eventual winner of a violent confrontation is likely to be wounded, weakened or permanently maimed in such a way as to make them easy pickings for the next challenger.

This translates entirely to the Human Experience. Look at two young males squaring up to each other and you'll see lots of posturing, hear lots of trash-talking, and see plenty of attempts at eye-to-eye intimidation. The fervent hope being that the other will back down and away before it actually comes to blows.

Only stone-cold psychopaths relish the prospect of actual physical violence, and they don't particularly care whether they win or lose.

Scale it up to the National or Imperial level and you can see that Nation-States operate on pretty much the same lines.

World Wars One & Two (actually, a single European Civil War with a 20-year armistice) were directly the result of powerful nations (quasi-Empires) putting on greater and greater displays of fearsomeness, with the expressed intention of dissuading any competitor from contemplating an attack or challenge. Unfortunately the situation became so pressurised - the threat of all-out confrontation so prevalent - that it took just a spark (in Sarajevo) to ignite the whole thing.

And at the end of it all, the apparent victor - the British Empire, the strongest combatant going *IN* to the confrontation - actually ended up losing the most in terms of power, prestige and Empire. Meanwhile, a low-powered, previously non-credible contender stalked the edges of the conflict, kept itself out of harm's way until the other combatants had weakened each other sufficiently, and then swooped in to claim the prize (and wealth) of "Most Powerful Nation on Earth".

Exactly how it works in Nature.

Subsequent to its being the Last Nation Standing in the European Civil War, the United States of America used Intimidation and Fear in order to maintain its position at the Top of the Pack.

Whilst the pseudo-Communist Soviet Union existed, it provided the perfect Bogeyman for the U.S. to use to frighten other nations into gathering under its protective umbrella. This allowed the U.S. to exert control over the frightened herds of smaller and weaker nations, without having to go to the expense of actual threats and force projection.

But once the Soviet Union fell, the U.S. lost its main justification for behaving in an overly militaristic and paternalistic way towards the Rest of the World. And it wasn't until it became sufficiently plausible to present Islamic Jihadism as a similar sort of threat (kind of... Well, potentially...), that the U.S. was able to reassert a reasonably plausible justification for continuing its self-serving Foreign Policy actions and objectives.

Maintaining its position at the Top of the Tree however meant the U.S. continuing to display such fearsome qualities and potential for violence that no-one else would ever dare question, much less challenge its authority.

Unfortunately for the U.S., Vietnam, Iran, South America, Somalia, Iraq and Afghanistan have all demonstrated to the World America's ineffectiveness to back-up its threats of violence with actions that aren't actually and ultimately self-weakening and self-destructive.

Whilst the Middle-Eastern Wolves, Jackals and Vultures have slowly but inexorably worn down the over-reaching American Eagle (just as they previously and fatally weakened the British Lion), the Chinese Dragon, the Indian Tiger and the Brazilian Jaguar have been biding their time.

They won't waste their energy on a direct confrontation of the Eagle, but then, they don't need to: they just need to wait for the Eagle to become so weak that it won't even bother trying to defend anything anymore. They can then move into the vacuum and create their own positions of power and control.

This is Nature's Way: Violence always loses out to Intelligence and Patience.

:>_