[quote=Superslacks][color=green]Well I suppose if I detach myself from the detail (woosh!) it's fairly easy to say that the way the economy works is fundamentally flawed. Debt is undoubtedly a problem; packaging up the debt, selling it on the market and 'insuring' it for more than it's worth massively compounded the problem, so a good start might be to look at the financial/banking sector.

In effect, this sector was one of the most 'free market' elements out there, in the sense that few people really understood it. With the pace of change and ingenuity far greater than the regulators ability to understand what was going on, let alone legislate against such menace, it seems to be a pretty clear example of market failure.[/color][/quote]

If you mean by a "Free" market, you mean free of government intrusion and regulation, then you are about right 'Slacks.

As 'Fish is describing, Western Governments are essentially wholly-owned subsidiaries of the major investment banks these days, and they act as front-men for the Banking Industry who pay their wages (/fund their election campaigns).

This isn't an ideological issue. The U.S. Banking Sector "donates" pretty much the same amount of money to the Republican and Democrat Parties.

http://www.economywatch.com/economy-business-and-finance-news/campaign-contributions-how-the-banks-control-us-policy-16-10.html

(^^Notice the direct correlation between the banks making donations and receiving TARP funds.)

And it is the same in the U.K. with the Conservative and New Labour Parties, which is why the only honest political criticism you hear of the Banking Sector in the U.K. comes from the Liberal Democrats (though there is a good chance that would change, if the Lib Dems became one of the two major parties...).

The funny thing is, as far as the Banks are concerned, politicians are ridiculously cheap to purchase. Compared to say a management, design or P.R. consultant, politicians can be "hired" for relatively low sums of money.

This, I guess, because the Banks are only paying for policy favours related to Banking & Finance; and our politicians are also being paid (donated to/lobbied) by many other business sectors for policy favours.

The key element that facilitates this collusion between Bankers and politicians is the general incomprehensibility of the Banking System to citizens and politicians alike.

If a Defence Industry contractor wants to get export regulations changed so that it can export flame-throwers to a military dictator in the Third World, this [i]can[/i] (though it doesn't always...) attract all sorts of negative political attention... Because we all know what a bad mix military dictators and flame-throwers make.

But if a Bank (or association of Banks) want to get an obscure sounding regulation changed to facilitate greater profitability, very few of us are going to notice, and even fewer people are going to understand the implications of those changes.

None of this is Conspiracy Theory, btw 'Slacks. It all takes place in full view, just hidden behind that most effective of screens: making it all seem really boring.

Our legislative bodies are passing hundreds of new Acts, Laws, amendments and retractions every week; but the Public only ever pays attention when it is a headline Law that will impact obviously and directly upon our lives.

The annual British Government Budget is a good example of this.

When the Chancellor of the Exchequer presents his budget to Parliament, the following day's newspapers are full of tables, graphs and illustrations about how much a pint of beer or a packet of cigarettes is going to cost us. They will maybe wrap it up into some easy to digest summary that tells us how much better or worse off a family of four is going to be following the Budget.

But the Budget changes that seem pertinent to the Public are only a tiny fraction of what is detailed in the Chancellor's speech and subsequently reported upon. The Budget also always includes pages and pages of minute,  apparently technical and obscure changes to the way the Economy operates; all of which has the force of Law, and virtually all of which is there as a result of Banking/Finance Industry lobbying.

Really big changes to the way the Banking and Finance Sector operates most recently occurred at the end of the 1990's and beginning of the 2000's. A lot of rules and regulations limiting the most excessive behaviour of Banks had been in force in the U.S. and U.K. since the Great Depression. But many and most of these limits were quietly removed during the Dot.Com boom, when there were enough members of the public making substantial short-term gains, for everyone to agree that anything that liberated people to make more money, must be a Good Thing.

I agree fully with EvilFish.

Bankers are people who exist to make as much money as possible. They know it, we know it, and our politicians know it.

Blaming Bankers for being Bankers is an exercise in avoiding responsibility.

It is in elected leaders that we place our trust to keep our Society stable and secure; and it is to those politicians that we give the responsibility to monitor and regulate those individuals who would destabilise our Society for their own self-serving reasons.

Not only have our politicians failed to do this, but they actively colluded and facilitated the ability of Bankers to bring our Society to this point of Economic Catastrophe.

[quote=Superslacks][quote=Holyman][color=blue]...reduce the role of Banking and Finance in Human Affairs to that of a simple utility, much as the model in the Islamic World is.

A bank should be a utility where people with surplus currency store that surplus. A bank could be a utility that could arrange, for a set fee, to loan out some of that stored surplus to other people who would like to borrow it for a set period of time.

That's it. That's all.[/color][/quote]

[color=green]Seeing as ready cash would (presumably) be harder to get hold of, I guess the pace of consumption would slow a bit as well. Might just be what's needed at the moment.[/color][/quote]

It's an interesting thing to look at our Society's historical relationship with Banks.

Up until the 1960's, Banks weren't very interested in doing business with the middle classes, and didn't do any business at all with the working class.

You and I are used to seeing the branches of at least four or five major banks in every town we visit in the U.K. But this is actually only a very recent phenomenon.

[quote][i]In the early 1960's, the majority of adults in the U.K. did not have a bank account, and the banks did not court business at all from the working classes, whom the banks regarded as unprofitable. If you were working class, you would be paid weekly and in cash. If you were middle class, you were more likely to be salaried and paid with a bank cheque at the end of the month. If you could afford to have a bank account, you could pay the cheque into the account, but even among the middle class, many had no bank account. It was common practice for cheques to be endorsed to local traders (and especially the milkman) who would know the customer and be prepared to exchange the cheque for cash.[/i][/quote]

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Girobank#Reason_for_establishment_in_the_UK

I'm not sure what the situation was in the U.S., but the ubiquity of Savings and Loan establishments in American towns seems to mirror the role of mutual Building Societies in the U.K., so I imagine it was somewhat similar.

The British Girobank was essentially (though not entirely) a nationalised British Bank created under the 1968 Labour Government, operating through the post offices that were a ubiquitous presence in all British towns and most villages.

By the early 1980's, one in every three pounds deposited in cash at a bank in the UK was deposited with the National Giro at the Post Office. However, this fact soon drew the ire of the private banks whose names are now more familiar to us, who were slowly waking up to the fact that operating banking facilities for the Plebeians could be made quite profitable.

It didn't take much lobbying of the compulsively-privatising Thatcher Government for National Girobank to be parcelled up and sold-off. (It was eventually bought up by Alliance & Leicester, who were in turn bought out by Banco Santander of Spain.)

What we see with Girobank is both the essential feasibility of running retail banking as a Nationalised (and profitable) utility, and also that our understanding of the "importance of Banks" (and their "Too-Big-To-Fail-ness") in our lives is only a very recent phenomenon.

The mess that the Banking Sector has created today has only taken two or three decades at most to develop. Returning Banking to a stable utility operation would not be akin to returning Society to the Dark Ages, as Bankers and their politicians would like us to believe.

Western Society survived [i]and prospered[/i] for the greater part of its History, without needing to be subordinated to the demands of Bankers. Indeed, income inequality and the wealth gap have grown considerably since Banks were given free rein to write their own legislation and regulations.

It should be abundantly clear to even the most economically apathetic that the way we have been trying to do things with Banks over the last couple of decades has not worked out, and we need to revert to a more tried and tested method, whilst we think about developing a more stable and reliable way forward.

[face_peace]