[quote=Superslacks][color=green]To be honest the topic is a bit 'woosh' over my head. I sure as shit don't trust the free market, nor do I particularly like the idea of epic government involvement.

What's the options?[/color][/quote]

[quote=SomeGuy[PCNC]][color=orangered]Yet how do you propose such reform? As we have both seen the past year government intervention is THE worst possible thing to do. As we both agreed upon the "too big to fail" should have been cut loose and allowed to fail.[/color][/quote]

Just to be clear guys: I deliberately left out of my first (and very lengthy) post, any attempt to suggest a possible solution to the situation I was describing.

I just wanted to try and lay out the situation as clearly as possible, using descriptions and language that would cut down as far as possible, on the "over head woosh" effect that Economics reporting has on most people.

I actually began the post by just wanting to point out what was happening with the PIIGS countries. Specifically, how the bankers that had been bailed out by national governments were now turning on those same national economies. How in the normal course of events, it would be standard practice for a bank or financial institution to take a "short" position on an ailing national economy; but that in this case, those economies are ailing, [b]*BECAUSE*[/b] they bailed out the banks that are now turning on them.

Hence my commencing with the fable about the frog and the scorpion. It is a complete and perfect fit, as far as I can see:

Greek Banks were in dire trouble, for all the reasons listed above. Greek Banks asked the Greek Government to bail them out. Greek Government says to Greek Banks, "But if we bail you out, we will take a severe hit on our Economy, making the us the target of speculative predators like you."

The Greek Banks say, "We won't predate you. Why would we? If we kill off the Greek Economy, then who will bail us out next time we need bailing out? Killing off the Greek Economy would be like killing ourselves off."

The Greek Government bails out the Greek Banks, takes the hit, and immediately gets shorted by the Greek (and other) Banks.

The Greek Government croaks, "Why?"

The Greek Banks reply: "Because it is our Nature."

See what I mean?

That's how I began, but as I wrote, I realised that I needed to contextualise the situation with a full background picture. As I knew that picture would be a big one, and as I knew our Economic Ombudsman, EvilFitch, would power in with his take on things, and since I wanted to try and prevent the thread being diverted by his usual unpleasant negativity, I deliberately left out any attempt to propose a solution.

The only conclusion I drew was:

[quote=Holyman][color=blue][b]10.) Conclusion[/b]

The Global Banking System is parasitical in nature, and is conditioned to put short-term greed ahead of long-term stability and security.

Therefore the Global Economy and Finance Sector is evidently in dire need of reform.

What that reform should be, is open to speculation.[/b][/color]

And that speculation is really what I hoped the rest of the thread might be about.

But you know 'Slacks, I want to address the point you just made, because I think it is absolutely key to the situation that Humanity has with its Economy and the Financial Sector.

Economics is [b]*NOT*[/b] complicated.

It really isn't.

At its most arcane, Economics is no more complicated than the kind of Game dynamics you might encounter in an MMORPG like World of Warcraft.

But what Economics is, unlike World of Warcraft (from all I'm told), is really, really boring. It is really, really dull. There is absolutely nothing to it, apart from an exercise in creating as much money as possible.

And that really is as dull as spending four hours in a distant corner of a Battlefield 2 map, with two other players, just killing and reviving each other in order to bump your stats as high as possible.

Economics always sounds really complicated. And when it is broken down, over-intellectualised, and subjected to all manner of endless theorising, it becomes as mystical and arcane as any High-Priest-driven Religion is supposed to sound to the uninitiated.

But when all the pretence is stripped away, Economics is nothing more than a Global System of Gambling, played by the biggest Gamblers in (and of...) Humanity.

Ever bet on a horse race 'Slacks? Ever bet on the Grand National?

If you have, then you must know how book-making works. You get told the odds of the horse you want to bet on, say 10-1, you put a tenner down, and if it wins, the bookie will give you £100 right?

That is how book-making works.

Oh, except there is this whole other layer of book-making that begins with each-way betting, and scales up into all manner of incomprehensible (to the uninitiated) accumulators, point spreads, Yankees, Trixies, Canadians, Super Heinz's and fuck knows what else...

Well that's just a scaled-down version of Global Economics 'Slacks. Unless you want to cross the threshold of your local bookmakers on a regular basis, you've really know need to understand how a full cover bet with singles works. And it's the same with Economics: unless you're actually going to become a currency speculator, you really don't need to bother yourself with what a "short" position is; if you're not going to become a Futures Trader, you don't need to gen up on commodity indices.

Famously, at the height of the creation of all the toxic garbage that the Finance Sector was creating (out of thin air) before the Crunch hit, many banking institutions admitted that [i]they[/i] didn't understand how many of the financial instruments they were creating were supposed to work. Warren Buffet, one of the most (financially) successful investors in the World, declared the arcane derivatives and toxic over-the-counter contracts that the banks were churning out as, "Weapons of Mass Financial Destruction". And it turned out, as with so many things, he was bang on the money.

The trick to unravelling it all is not to ask "How does it all work?"; but to ask, "How [b]*SHOULD*[/b] it all work?"

So think about it.

Here we are, a bunch of monkeys who climbed down from the trees and made a somewhat successful go of it, walking around on two legs and building up a more or less civilised Society.

A part of building up that Society was everyone doing all sorts of different things with their Time. We humans are ingenious little creatures, and because we can write stuff down and talk to each other about stuff, we have all diversified our activities a long way from simply hunting meat and growing wheat.

Now because a lot of us are doing a lot of different things that don't necessarily contribute as directly to our livelihoods as hunting meat and growing wheat, we need a universal denominator of worth or value, so that we can all trade our skills with one another.

Barter works for a while, but once a certain level of sophistication is passed, asking me to hunt and butcher a deer for you, in exchange for your building me a Local Area Network doesn't really cut it.

So we have currency.

And according to the Law of Supply and Demand, different human activities and services are worth different amounts of currency.

Some of us can get away with charging a lot of currency for what we do, either because there aren't many people who can do what we do, or because there are a lot of people asking for what it is we do.

And some of us can't get away with charging a lot of currency for what we do, either because more or less anyone can do what we do, or because there just aren't many people asking for whatever it is we can do.

That's it 'Slacks, you don't need to know anything else about Economics, that's all there is to it.

Everything else you've heard about Economic Theory, Global Finance and the Banking System, is just mystical and self-serving mumbo-jumbo, promulgated by those amongst us who would like the rest of us to believe that manufacturing money out of money, is the absolutely most vital and important day's work that any human being can do.

Which if you are a gambling addict, I suppose it is.

But if you are a craftsman, an artisan, an engineer, an architect, a mechanic, a driver, a teacher, a farmer, a soldier, a police officer, a doctor, a nurse, or any number of other occupations, then making money out of money is [b]*NOT*[/b] your primary goal in Life.

Your primary goal in Life if you don't work in Global Finance, is to do a fulfilling day's work for a fulfilling day's pay. You want to practice and develop your craft or skill; you'll want to deliver a high level of service to your customer; you'll want to feel proud of the job you are doing; and you'll want to go home at the end of your day's work knowing you've done something positive with that 8 hours of your Life.

But if you're a gambling addict, or an international currency speculator, then you'll have to fill your mind and your conscious with all sorts of specious rationales to justify why you've spent your day betting money on uncertainties. You'll need to convince yourself that gambling with your kid's college fund, or gambling with the Economic livelihoods of the citizens of an entire nation was a [i]GOOD[/i] thing to be doing.

And to do that, you'll convince yourself that what you're doing is really, really complex and involved, and that it takes enormous and considerable mental power to negotiate the intricacies and subtleties of the System you are working (playing) with; that managing to do what you do, is almost as worthy as growing food for your family, or healing a sick person.

Except it isn't.

Except that no matter how great your self-delusion grows, you'll never be able to shake the knowledge that you are wasting your life away in pursuit of spontaneous material fortune, and wrecking your own and many others' lives into the bargain.

...

There really is just one obvious solution to the "problem" of Global Economics that I can see 'Slacks; and it is a solution that many wise and learned Economists and Financiers (including our own Bank of England's Governor, Mervyn King) see.

And that is to reduce the role of Banking and Finance in Human Affairs to that of a simple utility, much as the model in the Islamic World is.

A bank should be a utility where people with surplus currency store that surplus. A bank could be a utility that could arrange, for a set fee, to loan out some of that stored surplus to other people who would like to borrow it for a set period of time.

That's it. That's all.

No complexities, no securities, no derivatives, no speculation, no futures, no bonds or gilts.

Just a plain old utility in a plain old building doing a plain old job: just the way it always used to be.

For everyone else, business continues as normal. Manufacturing and services are priced and sold according to the laws of supply and demand. Innovation and efficiency are rewarded with higher profits. Stagnation and inefficiency dealt with by closure.

Nothing Marxist, nothing Communist, all entirely Capitalist, all entirely Free Market.

Except that the Money Markets are closed down and turned into a simple utility operation.

Take a look back at my original post in this thread, and try and re-read it without the predisposition that it's all going to go over your head. I know it's a long read (for a Forum post), but try reading it in the bite-sized lumps I cut it into.

Then see if you agree with the solution I've outlined above.

You may not, but that's okay, we're only speculating on ideas here.

[face_peace]