[quote=Foota21178388][color=red] However, I am worried that the Government hasn't learned any lessons since they have shielded themselves from any corrective pain.[/color][/quote]

This dynamic/dilemma is at the heart of Keynesian Economic Principle.

The theory, originally proposed and named after John Maynard Keynes, goes like this (and apologies if I'm teaching you to suck eggs Foota, but I figure it might be of wider interest):

In a recession or depression, consumers have less money to spend.

Because consumers are spending less, private businesses earn less revenue.

Some private businesses cannot endure a significant drop in revenue for very long, before they go bankrupt and shut down.

When businesses shut down, they lay off their employees.

As more unemployed people hit the streets, wages stagnate or decline, because there is a surplus of available labour.

The combination of stagnating or declining wages, and increased unemployment, means that consumers have less money to spend, and we are back to step 1.

This is the classic cycle of depression.

The question is: how to break this cycle and re-ignite the Economy?

If consumers are not spending, either because they have no money or because they are holding onto their cash reserves due to uncertainty over the Economy, private enterprise has great difficulty in creating new jobs.

In other words, it is unfeasible and potentially impossible for Private Enterprise to break an Economy out of a depressive cycle.

Keynesianism proposes that the cycle be broken by government investment in public sector activity, in order to stimulate and increase consumer demand.

In other words, by government spending money, it will create the jobs that the private sector is unable to create. Government spending will introduce money into the Economy that will stimulate demand to a sufficient point at which revenues for private enterprise will begin to rise again. As private enterprise revenues rise, private enterprise will take over the role of job creation and economic expansion.

With the increased tax revenues that will flow from a re-ignited economy, government will then repay the money it borrowed to finance its deficit spending during the recession or depression.

That, in a nutshell - and skipping a *WHOLE* lot of detail - is what Keynesianism is all about.

What do you think Foota?

[face_peace]