[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]In terms of your history revisionism, both McCain and Bush were on record trying to increase regulation on Fannie and Freddie that flooded the market with cheap access to capital.  Obama and prominent Democrats (Dodd and Frank) fought against greater oversight 3 years ago when we may have had a chance to curtail some of the financial pain we are seeing now.[/color][/quote]

As I have explained to you about eight times Foota: this crisis has been caused by the widespread deregulation of the Financial Sector as a whole.

The total amount of "Sub-Prime" mortgages underwritten by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac has had negligible impact on the scale of the current crisis; and "Sub-Prime" mortgage deliquencies are lower than "Prime" and "Alt-A" mortgages.

This crisis has been caused by the Financial Sector operating without regulation or oversight, creating the biggest debt bubble in History. The repeal of Glass Steagall, and the Commodity Futures Modernisation Act in 2000, were the two single pieces of legislation most responsible for creating the current mess. Both pieces of legislation were pushed through Congress by Republican Senator Phil Gramm, John McCain's Chief Economic Advisor during his Presidential campaign.

When the scale of the problem and the impending crisis became clear - around 2004 - only the President of the United States had sufficient power and authority to act to avert the crisis.

The Bush Administration has concentrated more power in the Executive Branch than any Presidency in living memory. The GOP controlled both houses of Congress until 2006. Bush was able to cow Congress into passing whatever funding legislation was necessary to keep his "Wars" going in Iraq and Afghanistan, by raising the spectre of another terrorist attack on the U.S.

This Economic Crisis is infinitely more damaging to the U.S. than anything that a bunch of Jihadists could pull off. It was also entirely inevitable and predictable (unlike a terrorist attack).

If Bush had told Congress and the American People in the same stark terms, exactly what must inevitably happen (and has now happened) to the U.S. Economy, then he would have had no problem revoking the legislation that facilitated this mess.

Furthermore, there were a whole load of steps he could have taken to avert the crisis, without even needing recourse to Congress.

For one, he could have ordered the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates. For another, he could have replaced Alan "There was a flaw in my calculations" Greenspan.

But probably most of all: he could have [b]*NOT*[/b] appointed the Chief Executive Officer of Goldman Sachs, to the position of Secretary of the Treasury.

Sorry Foota, but whatever the underlying and contributory causes of this crisis may be, there is no escaping the fact that it all took place, with geological predictability and speed, during the Bush Administration's tenure.

Either President Bush knew what was happening, and chose to ignore it, hoping the crash would happen [b]*AFTER*[/b] he left office; or he didn't know what was happening, and refused to listen to those who did.

Bush is therefore guilty of criminal negligence, or criminal incompetence.

There's absolutely no escaping that fact.

And Bush shouldn't be allowed to escape either.

[face_peace]