[quote=AntBee][color=indigo]Reasonable people agree -whatever we think-that if the press is on the side of the government-well, just call America 'France' or something-because then, America is gone, sure enough, when the principals are.[/color][/quote]

The Media/Press is not a publicly-owned or social institution in America, nor in many other Western Societies.

The British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) is a notable exception, as it is wholly owned and regulated by the U.K. Government (which kind of gives the lie to its supposed bias...).

The Media/Press in the U.S. is owned and controlled by private institutions, primarily a handful of Global media conglomerates, most notably Rupert Murdoch's News International - owner of (amongst others) Fox News and the Times of London.

Privately owned Media has no obligation to report facts objectively or without bias.

Indeed, the primary business activity of Mass Media organisations is the generation of advertising revenue, by maintaining and increasing circulation, readership and viewers. This to the point that the actual revenue raised by selling newspapers comes a distant second to revenue generated by selling advertising space.

And it has ever been thus, particularly in the case of the United States: watch "Citizen Kane".

Governments recognise the power of the Media to influence public opinion; just as Media conglomerates recognise the power of the Government to make life more difficult for them through licensing and regulation. This has given rise to an unholy (and occasionally uneasy) alliance between the Government and privately-owned Media outlets.

A newspaper proprietor or television network owner will not allow information to be reported that casts its advertisers in a poor light.

So for example, a newspaper that relies heavily on advertising revenues generated from the airline industry, will downplay or fail completely to report negative information about the impact that airlines have on the Environment.

And it is the same thing with Government policies and activities. A newspaper or television station that relies upon the good graces of an incumbent administration to continue operating (license renewal, regulations etc.), will limit or avoid completely, direct attacks on that government.

As with the reference to Randolph Hearst ("Citizen Kane"), this is most apparent when media corporations like News International, are dominated by a single, power-broking proprietor like Rupert Murdoch. Such proprietors are fully integrated with the Establishment Elite; and being unanswerable to the Electorate, are mostly considered more enduringly powerful than mere elected politicians.

This is all pretty obvious, and only the most politically and socially naïve could begin to consider that any information that comes to them through the (Government licensed and approved) Mass Media, is not tainted by the prevailing political agenda.

Peace