[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]Sounds great on paper.  But I am not sure we have any meaningful real life examples supporting Keynesianism theory in practice.

There is a lot of new analysis on FDR's policies that suggests the big government interventions prolonged the Depression.

At any rate, we can see in real time what the billions in stimulus money have done in the US over the past year.  I work with municipal and regional governments in terms of water management.  We have not seen massive new infrastructure jobs with all of the billions spent so far.  All we have seen are politicians using this money to service debt and support unsustainable union pension systems.[/color][/quote]

Right, well, before I go any further Foota, I want to make it absolutely crystal clear that I am not an advocate or supporter of Keynesian Economic Policies.

I think that the theory outlined by Keynes makes a lot of sense. When you can't look to private investment to bring an Economy out of recession (see my dialogue with SomeGuy above), then there really doesn't seem to be any alternative to using government (deficit) expenditure to kick-start the Economy.

However, I think that Keynes' Theory is a part of the same equation that maintains and prolongs the endless Economic cycle of Boom and Bust. And therefore it is just as much a part of the Problem as excessive debt, rapacious speculation and politicians' economic naivety.

I also think that if you look at the Japanese Economy since it went into steep decline in the early 1990's (for exactly the same reasons as the Western Economies are now in decline), it is fairly apparent that nearly two decades of Keynesian Economic Policy followed by the Japanese government has completely failed to lift their Economy out of the mire.

As a side point though: the "Stimulus" money that your and my governments have handed over to the banks in the last couple of years does not fall under the rubric of Keynesianism.

Keynes' Theory advocates increased public expenditure in order to create more jobs. So this would be investment in public sector infrastructure projects like a rail network for example.

The key requirement for the expenditure is that it should create more jobs. Creating more jobs in the public sector means in theory that consumers will begin spending again, as their confidence rises. As consumers begin to spend more, private enterprise will experience an uptick, attracting more investment for new opportunities. Eventually, private enterprise will take over the role of creating more jobs, which will in turn increase consumer confidence and spending, creating a virtuous circle. At that point, government can scale back its expenditure and use the increased tax revenue from an expanding privately-driven economy, to pay off the debts it incurred during the period of deficit expenditure.

That's the theory, anyway.

Simply giving trillions of public dollars to pay off the bad debts of banks does [b]NOT[/b] create new jobs, directly or indirectly, and therefore has nothing to do with Keynesianism.

Right then.

I design and build intelligent Business Intelligence Systems for a living Foota nowadays, and have spent all of my career replacing redundant and ineffective systems with newer and more efficient systems.

So I am biased.

But as far as I can see, the Global Economic System is on the verge of complete and catastrophic failure. And instead of wasting Time, money and Energy trying to patch-up a failing system with Keynesian sticking-plasters or Supply-Side stimulants, we should all be working to design, build and implement a whole new system to replace the one we have, which is clearly on its last legs.

That new Economic System should be based on stability and sustainability.

Not equality, and certainly not communality.

It is the dynamic tension within Human Society that propels people to great achievements. Most people aren't driven by a desire for pure material gain, but by a desire for enhanced status and respect within their communities.

Look at how we all bicker and compete in this Forum Foota. The motivating factor is to achieve a sense amongst our peers that we know what we are talking about, that we are informed and wise, that we are accomplished and successful. It has got nothing to do with money, or even the supremacy of our respective ideologies.

It is about demonstrating our superior capability to one another.

And this is the dynamic tension that keeps our Forum Community thriving.

How dull would =PBF= R'n'R be, if we all just agreed with each other all the time?

What keeps =PBF= alive is the not-too-subtle sense of competition we all feel to demonstrate, if not the superiority of our views, then at least the importance of our point of view.

Communism is an unsustainable Economic basis for a Society because it negates the role of the Individual. So too does any form of Totalitarianism, including Religious and Economic Totalitarianism.

It is not the prohibition against material competitiveness that thwarts Communism, but the negation of the Individual and the vibrant dynamic that flows from the interactions of many Individuals.

So a new Economic System need not and must not be about establishing equality, or even levelling the playing field.

What it [b]MUST[/b] be about, however, is about the creation of an Economic System that is both stable and sustainable.

For the overwhelming majority of human beings, Life is about an Opportunity to express ourselves through our Family, our Work and our Friends. It isn't about the relentless pursuit of material gain; it isn't about meddling in or casting judgement on other people's lives; and it isn't about feeling Fearful of our fellow human beings.

Given the choice, anyone in their right mind would favour security, stability and Freedom, over insecurity, instability and Fear.

Whatever it is that is important to each of us, we are better able to pursue those goals with the Opportunity that a stable, secure and sustainable Society would give us.

The endless Boom-Bust cycle of our current Economic System is patently insecure, unstable and unsustainable. Keynesianism is just a tool that tries to fix our current System when it is breaking down.

What we really need is to scrap the current System and start all over again.

That doesn't mean throwing the Baby out with the Bathwater: there are a lot of elements of the current system that are definitely worth keeping. But  there are also a lot of elements and dynamics that are destabilising, inefficient and potentially catastrophic.

We need to apply the lessons we have learned and take the best of what works, and build something new.

It is as simple as that.

[face_peace]