[quote=SeniorAirman{AMMO}][color=green]looking mostly for the opinions/facts of those who live under there rule.[/color] [/quote]

OK then... Well:

The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is a Constitutional Monarchy. And this means that whilst the Monarch is the Head of State (and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces), he or she is bound to behave in accordance with Constitutional Principles.

And in this case, the Constitution isn't a written document like the U.S. Constitution, but a physical constitution of elected representatives of the People, also known as Parliament.

It has been this way ever since the English Civil War (1641 - 1651). And since we're dealing with institutions of National Pride, it's worth pointing out that doing away with a monarch as absolute ruler was something that the English did a full century and a half before any other comparable nation.

It's also worth pointing out to our American friends that the American War of Independence was not, in fact, a War against the English King George III, but actually against the British (somewhat democratic) Parliament. Though the language of the U.S. Declaration of Independence specifically identifies the King (of England/Great Britain) as the focal point of the Revolution, this merely reflected the conventions of the day, where British politicians (and hence everyone else under British Rule) referred to "His Majesty's Government", and portrayed themselves as always acting under his orders.

To an extent, this was and still is true: that the British Government [b]ONLY[/b] follows the Monarch's orders. However, the crucial point to bear in mind is that since Cromwell & Co. lopped off Charles I's head, and certainly since "The Glorious Revolution" (of 1688), when Parliament imported in the Dutch King and Queen, William and Mary of Orange, to directly replace the (Catholic) King James II, the orders that the British Monarch gives (and can give) are [b]ONLY[/b] those orders that Parliament has told the King or Queen they may give.

So it's all a bit of a pretence really: the Queen gives orders to Parliament through her Privy Council; but those orders have all been decided and drafted by Parliament. But it is a pretence built on roughly 1300 years of English/British monarchical History.

There have been occasions since the Civil War and "Glorious Revolution" of the 17th Century when a monarch has tried to over-rule Parliament, most recently in 1909, when Prime Minister Herbert Asquith and his Chancellor, David Lloyd George asked King Edward VII to create a large number of new Liberal peers to give the government a majority in the House of Lords (to help force through "The People's Budget"). Edward VII refused, insisting the issue should be put to the electorate in a General Election. However, he died during the dispute, and it was left to his son, George V, to avert what could have been a serious constitutional crisis (for the monarchy, at least), by backing down from his father's refusal. Legislation was passed shortly after the episode, to ensure that no such event could ever re-occur.

Today, the Monarch plays an entirely ceremonial role, giving her (or his) "Royal Assent" to all Acts of Parliament, until which grant, no Act of Parliament can become law. In practice however, this is nothing more than a rubber stamp function, with the Queen not required to even read the Acts she makes laws, unless she really wants to...

The Monarch is also tasked with bestowing favours upon worthy individuals, such as knighthoods, peerages and various orders of merit (Order/Commander/Member of the British Empire &c.). As Head of State, the Monarch is also required by diplomatic protocol to entertain visiting Heads of State - though only when such visits are declared official state visits.

Other than that, the British Royal Family tends to live a life of unbridled luxury, not, as many would have it, at the expense of the British tax-payer, but actually funded from their vast inherited wealth and estates. The bulk of the Royal Family's time is spent engaged in charitable activities, as patrons of innumerable good and worthy causes.

As for their validity/worth/purpose in the 21st Century...

Well, the argument goes that by having an emphatically a-political Head of State, the UK maintains an air of dignity and composure in foreign affairs, since the position of Head of State in the UK is uncontaminated by political bickering and such grotty affairs as democratic elections.

The Monarch (or rather, the [i]position[/i] of Monarch) acts as a focal point around which all British citizens can (if they so desire) rally, without being polarised by party political allegiances. During times when national unity are considered important - say during World War II - the Royals act as the hub for a social cohesion that very few politicians have ever been capable of providing.

I should point out that I am neither a Monarchist nor a Republican. More importantly, I'm not even remotely a Nationalist. So the concept, efficacy or pointlessness of a British Monarchy is of supreme irrelevance to me.

However, it would be remiss of me to not make it my business to understand the nature of such a ubiquitous and divisive element of the Society I live in.

[face_peace]