[quote="Junior-IRL"][color=#008080]Now they stick an article on the site & monitor the clicks,  if it doesn't get the clicks then it's removed within hours and replaced with something else.  As soon as they hit on an article that is getting clicks then it is pushed & promoted to the top of the site & kept there.[/color][/quote]

Eeesh.

I get Private Eye every fortnight, and follow its "Street of Shame" section quite closely, to hear about all the machinations behind the scenes of our "News" papers. But Private Eye mostly focuses on the economic woes of the Newsprint Media, the redundancies and "reorganisations", and of course, the behaviour of the higher profile proprietors and editors like the Barclay twins (Owners: Daily Telegraph) and Paul Dacre (Editor: Daily Mail).

I had no idea things had gotten as bad on the Front Lines as you've described Junior, but your description fits entirely with Private Eye's reports on the panic and disarray in the Editorial and Board Rooms of our major national newspapers.

Thing is...

...We only needed a Media to act as the, uh, medium through which we learned about what was going on in our World.

But the Mainstream Media was never intended, nor much less allowed to act as some independent "Fourth Estate". That was just how the idea of a privately-owned Media Establishment was sold to the Public.

The Mainstream Media as we know it has never been about investigations, uncovering information and bringing it to the Public, or broadcasting or printing objective truths.

The purpose of the Mainstream Media has always been to select, edit, contextualise and orchestrate the way that information is presented to the Public, in a manner that best advances the interests of a Media Outlet's proprietors' and/or its advertisers' interests.

This dynamic has now become transparent in our Societies.

Fewer and fewer of us continue to rely on *ANY* Mainstream Media outlet to inform us about our opinions.

Because of the World Wide Web, we are able to source more objective, more timely, and more raw information from multiple sources, than we can get from the single-dimensioned view of a TV Station or Newspaper.

It has never been an issue of which Mainstream Media outlet is more biased than another, or even an issue about which ideological direction a specific outlet slants its bias towards.

Every Mainstream Media outlet that has ever existed has existed to present information in a single-dimension; the dimension that best serves the interests of the Media outlet's proprietors and advertisers, and in the case of Publicly-owned broadcasters like the BBC, the interests of the Government on whose existence Publicly-owned broadcasters depend.

*THAT'S* a really important Truth we should all bear in mind; because we spend *WAY* too much time accusing each other's preferred source of information of some form of bias.

Bias is inherent; it is inescapable. No piece of information can pass from one human being to another without being influenced by the person providing the information.

When we are presenting and/or depending on Third Party information sources to back up our argument or position, in the Age of the Internet, it isn't about the quality or provenance of a single source of information, but the *QUANTITY* of multiple sources one can produce to verify and validate your information.

Someone who watches MSNBC all day, will, if they ever view Fox News, immediately spot the overt bias in every piece of information presented. But they will subconsciously overlook, or at best, consciously accept the exact same degree of bias in their own primary information source.

And of course, vice versa.

Nowadays, if you want to hold forth in a Public Forum, you have to try and make sure that any piece of information you present to support your position, has been vetted and authenticated by *MULTIPLE* sources. Because if that hasn't been done before you present the information in Public, it will be done *IMMEDIATELY* after you present it!

And what's not to like about that?

Our parents and grandparents used to have to rely on single sources of information for *EVERYTHING* they wanted to learn about what was currently going on in their World.

That is incomprehensible to the Millennial Generation. The idea that you wouldn't thoroughly fact check with multiple sources, any piece of information you may want to use to bolster your Social Media presence.

Your informed Millennial watches Fox News *AND* MSNBC, and slurps up information from every other information source available to them.

They skip through the adverts of course. And all the guff and self-promotion.

But they figure it is as important to know what and how the other side is thinking, as to know what your own side thinks.

And in short order, the World Wide Web as a whole, has become one giant News aggregator, with every pertinent piece of information being distilled down to a pure enough form to satisfy the intellectual palettes of an Information-Hungry Generation.

And for the most part, none of it is costing the consumers of all that information a single penny.

Meanwhile...

...The Mainstream Media is having to depend almost completely on advertising revenue, in order to continue to exist.

So the primary activity of anyone working for a Mainstream Media outlet these days, is to do whatever they can to encourage the "clicks" that generate the income their existence depends upon.

Very sad.