Hey T,

Thanks for your kind words.

And for your message... :)

OK, look, understand that whatever else I write from here on in (in this message, and on the Forum!), I [b]*WOULD*[/b] prefer to see Barack Obama in the White House next January, rather than John McCain.

However...

For me, it is definitely that Obama is only just, the lesser of two evils.

As I touched on in my previous message, the issue I have is with the System, not the personalities.

I don't just mean the political system that we use to govern ourselves, but the whole Human System, at the core of which are our political and social systems.

I'm not really too concerned with ideology, and couldn't give a flying fig about personalities - particularly celebrated personalities. For me the problems in our lives - [b]*ALL*[/b] our lives - are systemic, and can be traced back to the political, social, economic and cultural systems that rule our lives.

These systems are as anachronistic as they are sacrosanct, as self-destructive as they are self-perpetuating. They are also, for the most part, entirely visible to all, but at the same time completely ignored.

Why, for example, in a modern, thriving society of 300+ million people, in 21st Century America, do those people still have to choose between just two candidates, representing wholly established and thoroughly indentured interests, using a three centuries old democratic system?

Did you know that it took George Washington two weeks to find out that he was President? Two weeks from when the Electoral College votes were counted in New York, until he received the message at his home in Virginia. And it took a further two months before Americans in all the outlying areas were informed of the results.

America and the World are very different these days, yet we are all still clinging on to these antiquated systems of democratic representation and elections.

Government is still ridiculously over-centralised, with real power and authority focused intensely within opaque and intimidating elite groups of people. Our economic systems too are about the same age as our political systems, and just as out-of-date.

What Human Society - [b]*WORLD*[/b] Society - needs is a whole new Operating System.

But the Truth of the matter is that those human beings in a position to peacefully effect a positive change, to institute a genuinely new way of doing things, are those who are guaranteed to personally lose out with such a change. So nothing changes.

It has ever been thus. Human Society lurches from one great step-change to another, in fitful and often violent bursts, because the interests vested in the [i]status quo[/i] do all they can to prevent change and growth.

But it isn't those self-interested humans that are to blame for this situation; they are as much victims of the System as anyone else. People - usually men - are very reluctant to embrace genuine change, because there is a perceived comfort in the familiar.

And the System actively works to neutralise those who would seek to change It.

As you know, I work quite closely with the British Government, and I have lost count of the number of well-intentioned, genuinely inspired and creative individuals who have joined the Civil Service or political parties with a genuine desire to "Change the System from within"; only to have their Spirits crushed by the relentless bickering and lack of genuine authority that characterise the fringes of government.

This is because it is impossible to advance within the System, to a position where genuine Change can be affected, without first compromising one's ideals, and one's ambitions to change things.

And this isn't just about government and politics, it is the same situation wherever a handful or more human beings are working together to create and build anything other than a Family: business; religion; sports; social clubs... Anywhere.

Once embedded deeply within a System, individuals lose sight of the Big Picture they saw from the outside. Frequently, their journey to the Centre of the System requires so much in the way of compromise that they are too personally and politically weak to do anything - their enemies "have the photographs!".

Sadly, this is all too visibly happening with Barack Obama.

When competing with Hilary Clinton for the DNC nomination, he promoted and managed the projection of his personality in a precisely orchestrated way, successfully appealing to the Left Wing of the DNC, whilst Hilary campaigned amongst Right-Wing "Liberals".

This mirrored John McCain's success in the GOP primaries, incidentally: he was the least Conservative Conservative; and Obama secured the DNC nomination by appearing to be the most Liberal Liberal.

But with their respective nominations secured, they must now race to occupy as much of the centre ground as they can.

Unfortunately for Obama, Americans are a pretty Right-Wing Society, far more so than they will consciously admit to themselves (we see enough of that on =PBF=). What counts as Liberal and "Left Wing" in American politics, would be considered moderately Conservative and Centre-Right in Europe. And this means that Obama has to tack Right, whilst McCain can more or less stay put in the position he carved out during the Primaries.

And [b]*THAT*[/b] means that the Brownshirts and other GOP androids are going to have a field-day pointing out Obama's U-turns, just as they did with John Kerry. And where Obama doesn't "flip-flop", will be on policy positions that are already on the Right Wing - like his support for Israel, for example.

Obama's campaign team will consider this a fairly safe tactic, because they will understand that dyed-in-the-wool Democrats and "Liberals" will vote for Obama, no matter [b]*HOW*[/b] far he positions himself to the Centre, or Right of Centre. And it will all be justified in the name of capturing the Independent or "Floating" vote.

But what he will lose will be the inspiring energy he displayed in the Primaries, where he really gave his supporters and many other Americans the idea that here was a person who could genuinely change things. Not just beat McSame; not just pull the U.S. out of its Bush-piloted nose-dive: but genuinely change America for the better; re-position it to be closer to the ideal of America, and away from the murderous reality of U.S. Imperialism that has caused Americans to be despised the World over.

But he can't be that inspiring any more, not now that he's on the path to Pennsylvania Avenue.

He can't even give a glimmer of that kind of radical energy, lest the Republicans use it to defame him, and scare the living shit out of those many Americans who are rightly worried about the state of their country (even though it is in the state it is in, because of the Republicans...).

So he'll have to play it safe. He won't be able to be radical. He can't even suggest, let alone promise the possibility of the kind of change Americans have been screaming out for since before the 2006 Congressional Elections.

But that should be okay, right? Because there's no chance of the Republican candidate beating him, because everyone is so sick and fed-up of the Bush Administration, and what it has done to America and its Economy.

Well yes, Obama [b]*IS*[/b] the lesser of two evils... But that doesn't mean he's going to be a good President.

If he reaches the White House, I think he'll be the best President you've had for a long time; but that really isn't saying an awful lot.

He's racking up campaign contributions as fast as he can right now, and seems to have turned his back on the idea of locking out lobbyists and corporate contributors. And that means he's going to end up with some debts that will need settling. Right?

Ack... Look, fact is that the position of "President of the United States" really doesn't mean an awful lot these days; not since the Idiot-Boy King revealed to everyone that the Emperor really does have no clothes.

Like all of us, POTUS is beholden to the System, probably more so in fact. There are no "Supreme Beings", no omnipotent dictators or absolutely powerful individuals; it's all about a confluence of interests, energies and circumstance. Obama will do his best, I'm sure, to repair the damage from the Bush Years; and if he makes it to a second term, he might even try to implement some genuinely fresh and far-reaching changes.

But I suspect he'll be kept too busy for that.

Look T, like I said at the top of this message, I'd prefer a President Obama to a President McCain, any day of the week. And I'm going to do my best to keep the above sentiments to myself on the Forum, over the coming weeks and months (Holyboy 2.0 should help with that :)).

But this exposition to you is by way of me being as honest as you have to come to expect. And I guess it's also by way of notification that if, as I hope, Barack Obama does become the 44th President of the United States of America, then you will [b]*NOT*[/b] find me defending him against the Brownshirts.

Like I said at the opening, ideologies and personalities aren't all that important to me. If the =PBF= gang had all assembled in the 1990's, you would have been reading me ripping into Clinton's Foreign and Economic policies, just as I rip into those of Bush. Unless a President Obama implements some of the most radical governmental policy changes ever seen in Human History, in the first few months of his Administration, then I'm afraid that his supporters at =PBF= are certainly going to have me to contend with, in the same way that Foota has had to put up with me these last few years.

It's not about [b]*WHO*[/b] or [b]*WHY*[/b]: it is about [b]*WHAT*[/b].

I couldn't care less if it is an America run by a Democrat or Republican President that is destroying people's lives around the Planet: until the U.S. stops doing that, I won't stop doing what I do.

But like I say Traci, I'll probably keep quiet on that front, until [b]*AFTER*[/b] Obama has won the Presidency. :)

Peace