[quote="Foota"][color=#FF0000]FFS - no significant uprising?  Abiding by all the terms of Oslo?

In 2005, Israel pulled completely out of Gaza.  One would think that would be seen as a massive concession and good faith effort to move things along on the peace process.  What did the Palestinians do in return?  They elected a Nazi death cult (Hamas) who's platform is explicit that it will never recognize Israel.  Fire over 11,000 rockets into Israel, dig tunnels into Israel kidnapping and murdering Israelis and various terrorist attacks driving cars into crowds (Europe style!) and randomly knife civilians on the streets.[/color][/quote]

The problem you've got Foota, and I mean you personally have got, is your lack of objectivity.

See, for the most part, and with the probable exception of Barcelona, nobody around here really takes a side in the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict.

For the most part, we see that there is blame aplenty for both sides, in a bitter conflict that's been going on for nearly three-quarters of a century now.

There's been plenty of tit-for-tat, and as I say, for the most part, we all see both the tit *AND* the tat.

Where you tend to focus exclusively on the tit.

I'm not talking about always providing some Editorial Balance whenever a transgression on one party's part is discussed.

I'm talking about how most of us actually *FEEL* about the Conflict.

If absolutely forced (under some unimaginable circumstance) to pick a side, I guess most of us would plump for the Palestinians. But only because the Palestinians are by *FAR* the weaker side, and no-one likes a bully.

That's about as far as most of us would be willing to express any subjectivity on the issue, because none of us feel as subjectively supportive of the Palestinians, as you feel about the Israelis.

The actual problem you have is that you probably don't realise that when people who feel objective about an issue are discussing it with people who obviously feel a subjective bias, we tend to switch on an Automatic Subjectivity Filter in our minds.

We would have to turn that Filter on if we were discussing the Conflict with someone as passionately supportive of the Palestinian Cause as you are supportive of the Israeli Cause. Only we'd be automatically filtering out that person's subjective bias in support of the Palestinians. Whereas with you, we automatically filter out your subjective bias in support of the Israelis.

And what you need to be aware of, is that by the time your subjective bias has been filtered out, there isn't a lot left to work with.

This is a General Observation, not specifically linked to the Palestinian-Israeli Conflict, because the same applies on any number of other topics.

It is actually when you contribute to non-contentious threads, where you *DO* have objectivity, that we all get to hear your Real Voice, and understand why we appreciate having you around.

But when you get a bit "Talk Radio"... It can be difficult to respond with anything of any substance.

Do you *ACTUALLY* understand that by and large, and with the definite exception of Barcelona, nobody else around here is either Pro- or Anti-Palestinian, or Pro- or Anti-Israel?

If we have any subjective bias, then it is for all the Palestinians *AND* Israelis whose lives are blighted by this on-going Conflict, that no-one has been able to solve for seventy years.

We empathise with them. We recognise them. We fully understand that the majority of both Palestinians and Israelis would far rather be getting on with living ordinary, uneventful lives, like the majority of those of us in the West are generally blessed to experience.

So our Subjective Bias is only towards whatever it will take to end the Conflict.

We don't support Hamas. We certainly don't support any form of violence against *ANY* innocent civilians. And we most of us spend a lot of our time around here ridiculing Islam - because in case you hadn't noticed Foota, you are just about the only one around here who grants any form of respect to *ANY* Religion.

Except Islam of course. You save up all the religious disrespect that most of us spread freely and enjoyably around any Religion that catches our attention. And you vent it *ALL* at Islam.

A lot.

We don't know enough about Israeli politics to really cast judgement on any Israeli politicians. But even when we recognise that a particular action directed by the Israeli Government is... A bit much... Even *THEN*... Most of us conclude that we still aren't sufficiently informed about every single action and reaction that has fuelled this Conflict, to make a judgement.

We are primarily just discussing the Conflict in our usual voyeuristic and somewhat superficial way. But when we dig deeper, what we're all really looking for, is a resolution to this Conflict.

Now I know you will probably respond that you too are *REALLY* looking for a resolution to this Conflict. And I wouldn't doubt the sincerity of such a response.

But I think what you need to ask yourself is this:

Given the extensive list of grievances that both Parties to the Conflict have recorded over these last seventy years...

And given the even more extensive list of conflicting demands and apparently irreconcilable points of contention that both Parties have...

And given that the Israeli Government is by *FAR* the strongest and most dominant Party to the Conflict....

How much and/or what would *YOU* be willing to see the Israeli Government concede to the Palestinians, if it meant ending the Palestinian-Israeli Conflict?