In Reply To #96

I think the thing is that we've learned from History.

It may not always seem that way, because we are STILL using Historical (anachronistic) systems for political and social governance. But since we're talking about an ideal replacement, we CAN incorporate those lessons.

The Founding Fathers of the United States did this - overtly, and initially successfully - by deliberately designing a political system intended to prevent the excesses and abuses of previous governmental institutions.

Clearly there are major problems with the centralisation of governmental power on a national basis, which corrupt even the most well-meaning of politicians. As you rightly point out 'Slacks, centralising the same kind of governmental power we have now, on a Global basis, would be a recipe for disaster.

What I'm talking about with Global Political Union, is *NOT* the Global Centralisation of EXISTING Governmental systems.

What I AM talking about is doing away with the Nationalistic definition of Human Communities as distinct and separate from each other, along abstract and intangible lines.

Government itself needs to be devolved and decentralised on a much more local basis, whether Global Union is achieved or not.

The justification for the centralisation of Government on a nationalist basis has always been based on security and "defence". Without the need for "defence" against another national entity, the vast majority of governmental business can work much more efficiently on a de-centralised and devolved scale.

Apart from "Defence", it is difficult to think of any business of government that DOES benefit from being centralised.

Education, healthcare provision, environmental management, welfare, even (especially?) justice are activities of social governance that can be managed much more effectively on a local, Community-directed basis.

Apart from anything else, the smaller the scope of power vested in political leaders, the less attractive those figures become to those interests that would seek to bribe or sway them with, uh, "financial contributions". Bribing or "supporting" the President or Prime Minister of a hugely potent Society is a worthwhile exercise, because buying favour with that one person, gains you favour and facility within a huge market. But having to bribe many, many individual community leaders, becomes far too complicated - a full-time exercise in itself, not really worth the effort.

So again: the eradication of National borders eliminates the concept of Warfare; by converting (and coagulating) many externally facing military forces, into a unified, internally facing Police Force.

And Social and Economic legislation, taxation and governance can be devolved and decentralised on a much more discrete basis; in the same way that there is a distinction between Federal and State laws in the United States of America.

Individual communities become more autonomous and discrete, with much greater control over their own lifestyles. All under the guarantee of Global Security, and - this should please Foota - in respect and accordance with a Universal respect for basic Human Rights.

Peace