In Reply To #94

In Reply To #92

Centralisation is entirely anathema to me. YOU are more in favour of Statist Intervention than I am. Don't try to tar me with that dismissive brush.

Yet you are one of the leading proponents of centralization through the UN and scoff at my idea of a "League of Democracies".

I don't recall EVER scoffing at your (or anyone's) idea of a "League of Democracies".

In fact, I think I've been pretty consistent in my position that the US Constitution and the federated (or confederated) union of American States is an ideal template for a Global Federation (or Confederation) of Nations.

I like to think that I am *THE* leading proponent of Global political union around here, through a development of the existing institution of the United Nations. For the sole purpose of eliminating Warfare, and making conflict a criminal, rather than a military condition.

Do you favor the idea of the European Union?

Only as a step towards Global Union.

I am entirely opposed to the idea of the centralisation of social legislation on a European basis; just as I am opposed to the continuance of centralised government for the United Kingdom.

I favour a World of "Peer-to-Peer" Communities; not a continuation of the anachronistic "Client-Server" model that continues to prevail.

What about all your talk about eliminating nationalism and borders?  Is that not centralization?

Nope.

Nationalism and national borders are all about demarcating the limits of authority of individual politicians and interests.

The eradication of national borders and national identities can only be practically achieved with devolution of regional and cultural government. The models of social and legal control practiced on a national basis could NEVER work on a Global basis.

The only governmental activity I wish to see centralised on a Global Scale, is control of the Military. Once centralised, there would no longer be a need for a military, because there would be no-one for the military to fight: our military forces would become a unified Police Force.

Peace