In Reply To #80

In Reply To #79

By contrast, the "boundaries" of the (current) "War Racket" are VERY easy to define. If they need definition at all, since it is clear and obvious to all who the proponents of endless War and War profiteering are:

The Neo-Conservatives in the White House; their Zionist cohorts in Israel; and the military- and oil-industrialists who continue to reap MASSIVE profits from these unnecessary and senseless Wars. Assisted and facilitated by their cronies who own and dominate a compliant media.

Man these tired Marxist conspiracies get old.  It is always the same old boogeymen: Jews, Oil men, military-industrial complex....

Now I never said Jews... I said Zionists.

Big difference Foota.

As for the "Oil Men", are you seriously trying to dispute that the White House is currently dominated by individuals from the Oil and associated service industries?

Bush, Cheney, Rice: their hands are all covered in the black stuff.

And as for the Military-Industrial Complex...

You are aware that that phrase was first coined by President Eisenhower, in his valedictory speech, aren't you?

The United States supplies half of ALL weapons and armaments sold in the World; and has a Pork, sorry, "Defence" Budget greater than the Rest of the World combined. The Iraq War has seen American "Defence" Industry stocks soar.

Why do you imagine the US's military-industrial complex does NOT require a state of more or less continual War?

Where does Hillary Clinton fit in all this?  She is the Democratic front runner, voted for the war, and continues to tepidly support the surge.

Uh-huh.

And her policies are NO different to the existing Administration's.

A win for Hilary will make little or no difference: her campaign contributions come from the same corporations.

It beats me why Americans continue to believe there is any difference between the "Two" parties they get to "vote" for.

Are you a fan of George Carlin's?

"Forget the politicians. The politicians are put there to give you the idea that you have freedom of choice. You don't. You have no choice. You have owners. They own you. They own and control the corporations. They've long since bought and paid for the Senate, the Congress, the state houses, the city halls, the judges. And they own all the big media companies so they control just about all the news and information you get to hear. They spend billions every year lobbying to get what they want. Well we know what they want. They want more for themselves and less for everyone else. They don't want a population of citizens capable of critical thinking. They don't want well informed, well educated people. That's against their interests. They want obedient workers."

Think he might have been talking about you there Foota... :)

And what's the best you can come up with?

A nebulous and ill-defined "Group", which seems to include anyone and everyone outside of the aforementioned group.

You're going to have to do better than that Foota.

I did not write the article.  I just linked to it as it was very apt to our discussion.  Yes the current anti-war movement (Peace Racket) is nebulous, but the article named names and showed how morally bankrupt so many of those people are as they openly shilled for Stalin and virtually every Totalitarian thug on the planet.

Why didn't you just concede that there IS NO organised and/or cohesive group in opposition to the group you so blindly support, and which is guilty of producing the insidious propaganda we are subject to on a continual basis (and which you so willingly suck at the teat of)?

You know, *I* am talking about the on-going and current actions of a group of human beings who are responsible for generating and maintaining the bloody mayhem we are witness to in Iraq.

*YOU* are trying to establish some nefarious link to a Boogey-man dictator who has been dead for half a century; without being able to get close to identifying a cohesive and contemporary group to link him to.

I want to thwart the Neo-Conservatives' plans and ambitions, because they are responsible for so much on-going death and destruction.

YOU seem to be focusing on someone who has been dead fifty-odd years, and whom no-one here is disputing was an evil fuck.

What gives?

Peace