In Reply To #82

How about we call the object of my "paranoia" (which is rich coming from Look-Out-There's-An-Islamofascist-Behind-You-Foota): THE SYSTEM.

I believe in the 1960's, they used to call it "The Man". But me being a Systems Architect and all, I think "The System" serves me better.

Let's not get distracted by the changing and non-essential personnel who front The System, and change periodically, as popular expediency demands. Successive "Presidents" of the United States have acted merely as the Front-Man for a System of Social Control that benefits a tiny minority of the "Elite", at the expense of the vast majority of Humanity.

You KNOW I don't suffer from BDS, because I don't take George W. Bush seriously enough as "President". He is merely the latest in a long-line of puppets (The System has used a "B-Movie" actor in the past, ffs, and is cueing up another as we speak...), designed to give the whole rotten enterprise credibility, to continue fooling a sufficient majority of the People.

I mean, out of 300million+ People, all allegedly with equal opportunity to participate in the democratic process, how come you get a father and son both "President" within a decade of each other?

It is *ALL* about knowing how to manipulate The System; and The System is used to manipulate poor saps like you, into working Godless hours, to funnel the fruits of your labour up to the preening and self-serving elites that dominate your country, and consequently, the World.

Your nation's System requires that it be permanently at War, to keep the wheels of America's Military Industry turning. World Peace would be an economic catastrophe for the United States. Who would it sell its weapons too? Why would it spend fortunes creating and testing new weapons, if there was no use for them?

You do realise that 90% of elections contested at every level in the United States, is won by the candidate who spends the most money on campaigning and advertising, don't you Foota?

You do know that the Presidency costs about $100million to purchase, don't you Foota?

Where is a person like you or anyone you know going to get money like that from?

It isn't about coming up with popular policies that others are willing to financially support. There are only two credible Party platforms in the U.S., and the policy differences between them are negligible. So if you want to rise to a position of authority within your "democratic" system, you've got to sign on to the GOP and DNC - which means signing on to their policies - and hope you can curry enough favour, stay out of enough trouble, and be suitably marketable for those parties' central committees to favour you with a prominent position. A position you will lose the minute you stray too far from the Party Whip, or God help you, have any independent ideas of your own.

In the meantime, corporations spend billions of dollars bribing those fortunate enough to have slimed their way into a sufficiently prominent candidacy, to ensure that legislation remains favourable to their interests.

This is not conspiracy or paranoia Foota: it is common-sense observation.

And short of trying to turn the tables and go on the offensive against me - a humble Brit, with no greater power or authority in the World than you - you can do or say nothing in defence of The System that you so blindly and willingly support.

But you know, you just let your rational faculties carry on sleeping: there's a Moment in History coming up that even YOU won't be able to sleep through. :)

Peace