The most important point to emphasise is that I do not in any way categorise my Experience as a religious one. It was a Spiritual one, about consciousness and awareness; about Who I Am, and What I Am A Part Of.

More than anything else, it really opened my conscious mind to... Possibility!

Now I emphasise that I don't consider my Experience to have been religious, for exactly the same reason that I use the irreverent handle of "Holyman" on my ventures around the Internet: as far as I am concerned, any belief that is incompatible with scientific knowledge and understanding is just that - a belief. And too many of Humanity's problems have been caused by people being asked to accept "knowledge" on faith alone.

It is my understanding that Science and Spirituality are aiming for the same destination, though they are coming at it from different points of origin. This isn't an unusual or particularly virtuous ideology: most Eastern philosophies - Buddhism, Taoism, Shintoism, and to a lesser extent Hinduism - feel the same way about Science and Spirituality.

Unfortunately, in the West, the concept of Spirituality has been somewhat hi-jacked by the adherents of the Abrahamic Religion (Judaism, Christianity and Islam). Abrahamic Religion is synonymous with a close-minded attitude to Life and a dogmatic adherence to "Wisdom Revealed" (through allegedly Divine Scripture).

That is by no means a universal trait of all Jews, Christians and Muslims; but it is certainly the impression created by the most outspoken followers of Abraham's Faith.

I think the problem is that these religious types have attempted to seal their understanding, to laminate it as it was around a thousand, two thousand and three thousand years ago (pick your cut-off point according to whether you believe in Abrahamism v1.0, v2.0 or v3.0). In the Modern Age, this now makes them look like regressive dinosaurs, violently (physically or mentally) resisting Social and Scientific progress.

As a father, you'll know that when you are answering the continual flow of questions that come from young children, you have to present those answers in a manner in which you children can relate to. You might use metaphor or analogy, because if you use the strict scientific terminology, chances are your child will not understand what you are trying to explain.

So we tell "lies" to our children.

That to me is what Religious Scripture represents: lies to children.

3,000 years ago, Human Society and intellectual development wasn't really equipped to understand the kinds of scientific concepts that it (generally) can in the 21st Century. So when the inevitable questions were asked - Who Are We? Where Do We Come From? Where Are We Going? - the answers were provided (and recorded) in terms that an infant Human Civilisation could relate to.

Stories about the Creation of the Earth, the "First" man and woman, Global Floods &c., were presented as metaphor and analogy, in a way that could be comprehended, particularly by Neolithic tribes-people...

And that's all fine, provided those "Lies to Children" are seen for what they are: placeholders, to bridge gaps in understanding until such times as a more accurate and definitive explanation can be discovered, articulated and understood.

That is the bit that our Religiously-minded friends often seem to struggle with...

Bringing things up-to-date, I think that "New Age" ideas and philosophies are now providing the "Lies to Children", but in a much more Enlightened way. That is that it is fully accepted that these "Lies to Children" are merely placeholders, awaiting a rational, scientific explanation.

The crucial point - and the difference with religious "lies" - is that Spiritual "lies" are meant to encourage rational curiosity, not defeat it.

Fundamentalism is an aspect of the Human Condition, and there are as many Fundamentalist Atheists and Spiritualists as there are Fundamentalist Religionists. I think the antonym to Fundamentalist is Enlightened. More specifically, I think it is the difference between the Closed Mind and the Open Mind. The latter is an attitude that has served and continues to serve Humanity well; whilst the former seems to have brought Human Society nothing but grief.

My Open-Minded attitude to Existence, since my NDE, has been this:

It may well be the case that when my body dies, my self-aware consciousness will die with it; that that will be it: Game Over; Lights Out; End Of...

If that does turn out to be the case, then "I" will not be around to kick "my Self" for having lived a Life under the delusion that my individual identity would survive, [i]post mortem[/i].

But if on the other hand my self-aware conscious identity *DOES* turn out to survive the death of my physical body (and my personal Experience suggests that it will), and yet I have lived my physical Life believing that my final destination was Oblivion: then I might end up feeling rather foolish, or even regretful that I lived my Life on Earth as though it was ultimately purposeless.

So, with that in my mind, I have treated this present Life as though I am totally immersed in a full-sensory Computer Game; that I am aiming for a High Score, to at least improve my Global Stats; and that when I have completed this Game, I will be able to review it, reflect upon it, and then decide which Game I want to play next.

And I have to say, I have found an awful lot of information within this Game that suggests I might have stumbled upon the correct understanding of it.

Not that this stops me looking for even more answers. :)

:>_