Damn. After a couple of fairly quiet weeks in the office, I suddenly get swamped *JUST* as the OP finally hits my speciality topic!

Funny Old World, isn't it.

Alright, I'll give this a whirl, but it'll have to be squeezed in between less enjoyable activities throughout this day; so please excuse any prosaic inconsistencies or tangential rambling...

So, I was a common or garden variety English teenager at age 17, which means I mostly felt pretty uninspired by my cynical perspective on Life. But solutions were available in the form of various narcotics and stimulants, several of which were priced to suit my 17 year old's budget.

Signing up as a full blown Space Cadet then, I was into anything and everything that was available. And I applied the tried and trusted maxim that if some was good, more had to be better... Not too much of a problem with regards to the conventional recreational goods like marijuana, amphetamines and LSD, where personal finances were the limiting factor. But when it came to things like inhaling the butane propellant in aerosol cans, I lived like a king!

Now I need to emphasise at this stage that I spent a *LOT* of time getting very, very high sniffing aerosols. Someone showed me the trick when I was about 13, and it became a very regular past time for me, for the next four years of my Life. I say this because I want to establish that I was very familiar and very adept at coping with the highs and hallucinations that I experienced as a result.

So when, one sunny Sunday afternoon in 1987, when I experienced a "trip" that was unlike anything I had experienced before: I *KNEW* it was unlike anything I had experienced before.

But more of that in a moment.

The point is than when I "died" during this particular aerosol-induced episode, there were no witnesses. No family member or friend discovered me. I received no medical treatment. There is absolutely no record that I died.

Maybe, I didn't die at all.

I certainly didn't conclude immediately that I had died. I only told one close friend what had happened, but I didn't describe the episode as a Near Death Experience (or any form of death experience at all): just as an incredibly intense experience that was unlike anything I had experienced before.

The memory of that experience stuck with me, vividly: every detail, every thought, every emotional reaction. But I never classified it or thought of it as a Near Death Experience.

14 years later (2000), I was poking around the InterWebs, trying out a few different search terms on different engines, and one way or another ended up at this website: http://www.nderf.org (it's a bit flaky now - doesn't look like it's been developed much since 2000...).

As I read many of the NDE stories on the site, I became increasingly amazed at the similarities between what was written in those stories, and the unique episode I had experienced back in 1987. From the site I hooked into a NDE mailing group, where I connected with several hundred other "NDE'rs", and many more people who were very interested in the subject.

That's the, uh, "Down to Earth" stuff then. I realised very quickly after joining the NDE Community that the actual circumstances of my experience were largely irrelevant. It could have been mortal death; it may not have been. Since I wasn't about to set out on a crusade to convince the World that "Death" was only an illusion, I didn't need to classify or present my personal experience as evidence of or for anything.

The obvious and understandable response I get from a lot of people when I tell this story is, "How can you be sure you died?" To which the honest answer is: I can't be sure.

Maybe it was just a whack-out, hyper-intensive, chemically-induced hallucination. Thing is, it just has never felt important or relevant to define or establish the exact conditions of my experience in absolute terms.

So, I refer to it as a Near Death Experience (NDE), because it was a (so far) unique experience in my Life, but yet one that appears to share overwhelming similarities with the experiences of many other, more medically verified NDE'rs.

Alright, so what was it that I did experience?

Well, first off, I was getting high, and I knew what that was all about: I'd done it a thousand times before. I was lying in my bed, inhaling butane propellant (from a deodorant aerosol can) that I had sprayed onto a bath towel.

Then: Everything Stopped.

So you know when you're in a really vivid dream that you think is really real, and then you wake up, and realise what really "real" really is..? Well know imagine "Waking Up" from the state of consciousness you are in now, and *REALLY* realising what *REALLY REAL REALLY IS*.

We're only talking about conscious states of awareness here. When you shift from your dream-world back into your waking reality, you just know immediately that alright, well *NOW* you are awake. The Experience I had went a further degree beyond that: I just understood that I was now more *AWAKE* than I had every previously been in my Life.

That was the Sensation.

What I perceived was this:

When Everything Stopped, it was total sensory deprivation: there was no information coming in on any wavelength. The only sense that I still had was my sense of self. But even my sense of self was a radically minimalised version of what I was used to. There was no mental chatter, no anxiety, no fear. There was no sense of excitement or trepidation. No sense of myself in relation to anything else.

Just the sense of "I".

Things could have got boring real quickly. I had obviously been set to experience all the wondrous hallucinatory delights that I could extract from an aerosol can, but instead, I got nothing. Except that I wasn't conscious of thinking about my situation. I wasn't thinking, "Oh well that's that, looks like I finally found out how far I could push things..." I wasn't thinking anything. I was just... Well, just aware of my Self.

And then, things started to happen.

It wasn't that I began to "see" things being overlaid on the "Nothing"; but rather that the "Nothing" began to fade away to reveal What Was Always There. And What Was Always There, apparently, was Emotional Energy.

It felt like what you would get if you stripped away all of the physical and mental attributes of an individual and were left only with their Emotional State. But I was perceiving that Emotional State on what seemed like every sensory frequency: I could see, hear, smell, taste, and uh, feel the Emotion.

And there was a *LOT* of it; a lot of distinguishably different but apparently not separate Emotional entities. Like a million different splodges of different coloured oils on a painter's palette, with each distinct colour pleasantly blending into its neighbours. And whilst I could tell that each distinct shade represented an individual personality, it felt at the same time those individuals were all one. There was no discord, no friction, no antagonism... No differences.

And being amongst them, I felt the most intense sense of Love and compassion: Unconditional Love. No judgement, no discrimination, no hierarchy: nothing but the most Peaceful sense of Love they all had for each other, and for me.

Which was nice.

I suppose it made me feel like a baby. I felt like there was nothing I needed to do, no regret, no fear, no concern, no worry about the fact that I may have fucked up. Everything just felt Perfect.

But... I was also aware of a general murmur of opinion, which I heard as, "He's not ready."

I didn't really pay that too much opinion though, because I began to get more of a grip on my situation. What I really began to notice was the absence of a lot of the conceptions I had about my Life. I became aware that there no longer seemed any point dividing things into "Good" and "Bad", "Right" or "Wrong". It was the sense that since what I had previously thought of as my "Life" now looked increasingly like an illusion, the categories, judgements and rules I had been using to make sense of "Life", now seemed utterly redundant. A bit childish actually: a "Waste of Time" was the conclusion that really lodged home.

It wasn't that I began to receive Divine Wisdom from any Source; it was more that I realised that at some level, I had known the answers to "Life's Mysteries" all along, but had been deliberately deluding myself in order to conform socially. I didn't really ask any questions, I just stated realisations about "Life", and received the response, "Yes, of course."

Aged 17 of course, most of those "Life's Mysteries" I was clearing up were related to my own personal teenage goals, rather than any gaining any esoteric insights into the Human Condition generally.

It was things like:

I really don't need to spend as much time as I have been, worrying about what other people think about me, because actually, they are all spending so much time worrying themselves about what other people think about them, that they actually don't spend much time at all thinking about me.

[i]Yes, of course.[/i]

If anyone or any God accuses me of making a mistake, or failing to do something in my Life, I am always going to be able to justify to myself why I chose to do or not do, whatever it was I chose to do or not do. The only person whose judgement on my Life I will or can accept is my Self. Therefore that is the only judgement I will care to face or care about, at the end of my Life - if I choose to judge my Self, at the end of my Life - which I may not.

[i]Yes, of course.[/i]

I decide what is "Good" or "Bad", "Right" or "Wrong", based on my own feelings about any given issue. If my parents, friends or Society decide something is "Right", and I don't agree with them, my own feelings on the matter will always be paramount. The same goes if I decide something is "Right" that my peers declare "Wrong". Therefore morality is manifestly subjective, not universally objective.

[i]Yes, of course.[/i]

Like I say, I was only 17, so no great pearls of wisdom were asked for or expected...

I suppose I'm trying to convey the substance of the Experience here, rather than the particulars. I didn't have one of the "Hollywood" style NDE's that many others have reported (Cities of Light, Interviews with God, Spirit Guided Tours &c.); but I did have an episode, unique in my Life Experience (so far), which profoundly influenced and altered my subsequent life.

The key point is that I would have been quite happy to wallow in that blissed out State of Consciousness for Eternity; bathed in Unconditional Love and having my understanding of the World verified. But at some point in the Experience, I began to contemplate how my not returning to Life would affect my parents, particularly my Mum.

Eight years before my NDE, my older brother (aged 9 at the time) died in a tragic accident where he accidentally hanged himself. The thought occurred to me that it was going to be pretty harsh on my Mum, to lose a second son.

In that blissed out State, I could see that if that was how it was going to be, that would be fine, that would be a part of her Journey, her Life Experience. But I also recognised that I could make a Choice. I could choose to remain where I was, move in permanently, as it were; or I could return to my Life (and to my Mum), with the knowledge that I'd End Up back in that State eventually.

It was a no-brainer.

And just as soon as I realised it was a no-brainer: that was it. It was like someone pulled the chain and I got flushed back into "Reality".

I came to with my heart beating faster than I've ever experienced, before or since; tears were streaming down my face because I had been so overwhelmed by the Emotion of it all. And there I was, back in my bedroom, Back to "Reality".

That's about it.

The Experience really did fundamentally alter my perspective on "Life", in a way that hasn't left me. I won't say it particularly changed how I lived my Life, but it certainly changed my attitude to Life.

A part of that shift in attitude is not really investing too much energy or thought into the validity of the Experience; even the issue of labelling it as a "Near Death Experience", or something else, is not something that particularly concerns. My awareness and understanding of Existence has continued to grow, and I can safely say that it was without doubt a hyper-personal Experience, that I'm not really sure was ever meant to carry any meaning for anyone else, other than me.

I'll get into the nuts and bolts of speculation on the Nature of Life and Death in responses to the other posts in this thread.

But the above is my expanding a little on my NDE. :)

:>_