In Reply To #97

Have you ever thought of trying the Dvorak Simplified Keyboard? Typing at your rate it would seem to make sense and reduce the possibility of RSI.

Interesting...

I think it's just a question of practice with the touch-typing, and for me it's been some 25 years - and many, MANY billions of words - since I started typing on a QWERTY keyboard. I too started (as we all do) with "Hunt-and-Peck" (nice!), and it probably took me a good 5 - 10 years before I'd got the right digit-to-key position off-pat.

But though I knew which finger to use to press which key, I still needed to look at the keyboard as I typed, which restricted by speed to around 45wpm. It took another 5 years or so before I'd got the hang of touch-typing, which took my speed up to around 75wpm.

After that it has just been a question of practice, and perhaps more importantly: a reliable flow of words to type! It's that my prose is generally stream of consciousness that really boosts my word-rate...

It's all very Zen. :)

I used to own and play three separate systems of concertina (aka musical caterpillars). Not the cheap toy ones, but beautiful old Wheatstones that cost thousands today....real works of art they are. Anyway, you can't see your fingers or the keys while playing, yet I could bash out reels and jigs as fast as anyone.

I've always found concertinas and accordions to be fascinating instruments, whilst remaining completely baffled by them.

I'm a huge fan of the Tiger Lilies. Don't know if you've heard of them, but they're a 3-piece working out London who have a unique sound based around an accordion, bass and percussion, all set-off by the lead singer's amazing falsetto/countertenor voice.

http://www.tigerlillies.com/2003/index.php

Examples:

http://www.1person.com/audio/hell.mp3

http://www.1person.com/audio/flyingrobert.mp3

(That last is a *VERY* special song for me. :))

But can I touch type? No way. I've tried learning using software aids but I'm still faster using hunt and peck.

As a musician, you should know there are no shortcuts Sid!

You just find your groove, close your eyes, and LET IT FLOW. :)

I've never really got the hang of musical instruments, because whenever I hit a bum note, I always stop and go back to the beginning of the tune to start again to get it perfect. As I'm sure you know - and as my all-singing, all-playing HolyFather tells me - the key is to keep going and get the WHOLE SONG flowing, rather than obsess about stringing perfect individual notes together.

It's the same thing with typing Sid. Just relax into it, get the flow, don't worry about the odd bum-note, and just allow yourself to gradually improve - however long that may take.

And, if that DOES help you get beyond 2 or 3 words per minute: you can teach me how to play "Flying Robert" in return. :)

Peace