[quote="PBFMullethunter"][color=#0040BF]I fail to see how giving everyone money wouldn't just devalue the money or instantly increase real estate prices without actually changing anything.  Why give some rich asshole anything?[/color][/quote]

That's a dangerous sort of a question to ask whilst I'm about MH...

Hope you're sitting comfortably!

A while ago...

...Most human societies that wanted to think of themselves as "Civilised", decided that having dead poor people (particularly children) littering the streets, stinking the place up, and generally getting in the way, was... Not a Good Thing.

And one way or another, to a greater or lesser extent, these societies implemented steps to at least make an effort to ensure that no members of their Society (unwanted immigrants didn't count) would die from starvation, easily-preventable diseases, and where possible, lack of shelter.

That's the important point to bear in mind MH: that most reasonably "Developed" Societies have already taken the decision to look after their own Citizens.

That decision began in the early 19th Century with the abolishment of Slavery, and developed through the Victorian Era, and was really cemented (in Europe at least), following World War Two. By and large these days, most politicians generally understand that they have to at least *LOOK* like they give a shit about anyone and everyone who has a vote.

OK?

The policy decision to look after people by providing/underwriting their basic Life necessities is already in play.

It's just a question of what strategies, tactics and methods are utilised to deliver on that policy.

Generally speaking, the approach is that only those Citizens who are *UNABLE* to provide for their own basic Life necessities, will have them provided by the Society they belong to. Those Citizens who just decide they cannot be bothered to provide their own basic Life necessities, or who are perceived or measured to just not be arsed, rarely qualify automatically for such beneficence...

So far, so normal.

But it starts to get complicated.

Someone with no arms and no legs, will generally be considered by all but the stoniest-hearted to be less capable of providing for themselves, than those of us with a full compliment of limbs. Even so, those limbless individuals will still usually need to ask someone to help them fill out a whole bunch of Government forms, in order to have the validity of their claim approved by... The System.

Of course, some people say that the time and expense required to process, validate and approve a limbless individual's claim that they are "unable" to find a job that can fund their own necessities, is a lot of time and expense wasted...

Some may also say that the time and money wasted on processing, validating and approving claims that are so obviously legitimate, is time and money that would be better spent by the individual concerned, on sourcing and maintaining the actual necessities. Better to have time and money spent into the Real Economy, rather than wasted on unnecessary Government Bureaucracy.

Point being that for every $1 received by the limbless individual, there are additional administrative costs that Society must also pay. And our own familiarity with the inefficiencies of Government Bureaucracy should tell us that those costs are unlikely to be... Negligible.

And when it comes to assessing the claims of those less obviously unable to provide for themselves, those costs increase significantly.

A core motivation for UBI then, is improved efficiency and a decrease in (or total elimination of...) the Government Bureaucracy required for administering Citizens' Welfare. And this can only be achieved by either automatically granting *ANY* request from a Citizen for Welfare Support; or by proactively providing it to everyone without waiting for a request, since who *WOULDN'T* apply for free money, if they know their application won't be refused?

So now we've arrived at the point where every Citizen is getting a deposit in their bank accounts (or a cash handout) every month, of an amount considered necessary to cover all their basic necessities. (Let's say $1,000 a month, in case I need to do any maths later on in this post...) And so we can start to consider your concerns MH.

As I've explained in excruciating detail on too many occasions, money isn't worth anything.

Money is just a mechanism of exchanging value, a way of keeping score (profit, losses, liabilities, assets &c.), and storing value for later use.

When a Society operates a Welfare Policy, it isn't concerned with handing out money, it is concerned with ensuring that all (or most) of its Citizens receive the value of basic necessities.

In a Communist Society, that has often meant that instead of being given cash to buy food, medicine and shelter, Citizens (Comrades?) are given the food, medicine and shelter itself, directly.

The *BIG* problem with that approach, is the *MASSIVE* (and massively Centralised) bureaucracy required to administer all of that. And a lesser problem is that such an approach requires the homogenisation of Society, which doesn't do a great deal for Freedom of Expression...

So instead of free food, medicine and housing being handed out to any and all applicants, better to give the scroungers money, and let them figure out where to obtain the value (from food, medicine, shelter &c.) they need.

A halfway-house approach to this situation is food stamps, clothing and housing vouchers. Those are forms of money which can only be spent on/at the source of value the Society intends to be provided/sourced. But even that can be problematic, as there needs to be a policy decision that dictates what proportions of the welfare funding are to be spent on which necessities. And since different individuals have different priorities, this approach can give rise to recipients trading different types of vouchers amongst themselves, according to their priorities.

So why not just give them hard cash, and let them decide their priorities themselves?

The aim is to ensure that Society provides sufficient means for its Citizens to source those valuable necessities sufficient for Life.

If and when an Economic/Logistics System appears that is capable of automatically ensuring that all Member-Citizens receive all of the essential necessities they require, proportionate to their own dispositions, without any bureaucratic (human) overhead... Then that could certainly replace the uncertain business of giving individuals cash, and trusting them to spend it on food for their children, rather than on drink and drugs.

But until then... It has to be cash.

OK then. So what happens if you start giving a bunch of cash ($1,000 a month?) to people who *DON'T* need it?

Well... Firstly of all-ly... How many people do you know who would *NOT* benefit from a $1,000 a month guaranteed payment? All other things being equal.

I earn a reasonable amount of money... But I certainly wouldn't turn my nose up at someone offering to add £6-700 a month into my bank account...

Honestly/realistically... How many people do you know who, if they were suddenly receiving an extra $1,000 a month, would immediately look to piss it all away..? I'm not challenging you here... I'm sure you probably could identify a few people you know who would; but probably on the basis that they piss away whatever money they're currently getting.

I'm just making the points: that we're not talking about a huge amount of money here; that the majority of people aren't so flush that they would just throw the money on the pile in the corner of their mansion; and that most people these days would find that kind of additional income...

Helpful.

And that means..:

They would spend it.

And the whole reason for the existence of Money, is for it to be spent.

Spending money stimulates Economic Activity. Economic Activity creates and distributes Value.

Give someone who has no money or income $1,000 at the beginning of every month, and chances are that by the end of that month... That won't have much of the $1,000 left. Because they will have spent it on the things they need.

Give it to someone who is working one or more low-income jobs, and chances are by the end of the month, they won't have a lot of it left either.

Give it to someone who is working an averagely-paid job, and has an average level of liabilities, including an average level of personal debt... And they're unlikely to have much left over come the end of the month.

And give it someone who is working a reasonably well-paid job, who doesn't have a great deal of debt, will likely use that amount of money to slightly improve the comfort of their home, and/or the quality of their car or holiday destination.

And by the time you are giving it to that very small, fractional percentage of Society's citizens who are seriously wealthy (and above)...

...They probably won't even notice that level of income hitting their bank accounts, in amongst all the other dividend streams, interest payments and other forms of income. Much less predicate some Grand Spending Spree on the back of it.

...

Money will only become devalued if there is a corresponding increase in the Money Supply. I.e. if more money is printed in order to facilitate (not fund...) Universal Basic Income.

But if UBI is funded by the cost savings from eliminating the bureaucracies currently used to administer welfare, topped up perhaps by an equally effective and efficient Financial Transaction Tax, there would be no need to increase the Money Supply.

The vast majority of UBI recipients will spend the money they receive straightaway, on stuff they need, which is stuff that Society has already pledged to provide them with (once the paperwork is sorted out...).

By cutting out the bureaucracy and increasing the confidence with which people expect to receive money, more money will be spent into the Real Economy, which will stimulate Economic Growth.

It is hard to see how Real Estate prices could increase (instantly or otherwise) at any greater rate than they are currently increasing. Given current Real Estate prices in the Developed World, the sort of UBI levels we're talking about aren't going to see people wanting to get deeper into debt.

If anything, I'd say that if people knew with a high degree of certainty that they would always receive a guaranteed income for the rest of their lives, which would include a provision for funding adequate shelter...

...Then they may reconsider how necessary it is to saddle themselves up to an expensive mortgage for most of their lives, just so they can be sure they'll have somewhere to live when they want to retire.

Remember: the value of Real Estate is not set by how much money people are willing to spend; but by how much money Banks are willing to lend.

Less chumps signing up for mortgages that will cost them 25% of their net earnings in interest payments = lower Real Estate prices.

Don't see any problems there.