In Reply To #27

In Reply To #26

We'll have to wait for the Brits to wake up later to see if I've got it all right.

Spot on, old bean. :)

I did just want to annotate an important aspect of the first point you made, since I figure it may aid Traci's understanding.

 (Will doubtless add a bit of background colour too, so apologies in advance if I ramble :))

Members of Parliament are voted for directly by voters in their electorate in a first past the post system for the House of Commons (the lower house).

The country - the United Kingdom (should be "Kingdoms" - England & Wales, and Scotland) of Great Britain & Northern Ireland - is divided geographically into parliamentary constituencies.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Kingdom_constituencies

and

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Parliamentary_constituencies_in_the_United_Kingdom

Every UK citizen of 18 years or older, who isn't either insane, a criminal, a Peer of the Realm, or frequently, all three, is allowed to vote to send a representative of their constituency or community to the British legislative assembly, known as the House of Commons. All British legislation is generated, approved and passed into Law by the House of Commons.

By tradition and statute, a General Election is required to be held at least every five years. During a General Election, every constituency must elect a new representative, or re-elect their existing one. There are no limits to the number of terms a parliamentary representative, or "Member of Parliament", or MP may serve. There are also no statutory residency requirements, though tradition dictates that MPs do reside at least occasionally in their own constituency - unless it is a really shitty area of course...

To stand as a candidate to be an MP requires only that you fulfil the voter eligibility requirements, and that you stump up a financial "deposit", to cover the costs of including you on the ballot. This "deposit" is refunded to you if you achieve a certain percentage of votes cast in your favour. (This last to discourage time-wasters who are unlikely to poll more than a handful of votes from their friends and family.)

No matter how many candidates stand for election in a single constituency, the candidate who receives the highest percentage of the votes cast, becomes the elected representative, or MP.

This is the infamous and so-called "First Past the Post" system.

Here's the flaw with it:

In a typical constituency, you will have candidates standing from each of the three main political parties: New Labour; Conservatives (aka "Tories"); Liberal Democrats. And equally typically, these three party candidates will receive a combined total of about 75% of the votes cast.

The remaining 25% of votes cast will be distributed unevenly between the Green Party, local and fringe issue candidates.

The current governing party, New Labour, began life around 100 years or so ago, as the representative party of organised labour, or "Labour", as it was unimaginatively titled back then.

The Labour Party was of course, an entirely Left Wing party, utterly Socialist, and frequently Trotskyite. And their glory years were the post-War years.

I've always imagined that if I wasn't born into British Culture, but wanted to understand it, I'd focus in on the relationship between the British and Winston Churchill, in 1945. :)

To the World outside Great Britain, Winston Churchill is the archetype of all that is great about the British cultural and social identity. And whilst he was rightly honoured by his fellow countrymen as a Hero and Statesman, and accorded the appropriate funereal rights for a person of his stature; it surprises many non-Brits to learn that immediately following Churchill's leading as their Prime Minister, Britons to victory in World War Two, those same Britons sacked him.

Now that tells you a lot about British stoicism, and it also tells you a lot about the British Electoral System.

It's rarely anything personal.

You need Bulldogs to fight for you; but you need Hippies to take care of you.

Unfortunately, most of the Best of the British Bulldog Breed had died in World War One. Their sons, who fought to avenge them, were all slaughtered in World War Two.

End of the Line for Empire; End of the Line for the Bulldog Breed.

I digress, back to the Hippies.

These were the Brains of Britain.

It wasn't that these guys were too cowardly to go into Battle, or even that they were too intellectually superior to the concept of War. It was simply that Britain recognised that these Brains were too valuable to end up splattered across some cabbage patch in Belgium.

These guys weren't cowering behind poetry; they were spending their time developing things like jet engines, rockets and computers.

But talk about natural selection.

Whilst all the British Beef was away being ground down into a fine mince in Asia, Africa and Europe, British Brain was busy filling the uh, Beef deficit back on the Home Front.

Alright, we got an injection of so-called "American" Beef back into our stock after about 1943, but since most of that was second or third generation European, it hardly counts as hybridisation. :)

Alright, so now we're up to Lean and Brainy British Beef.

And mostly because the Hippies did a GREAT job of clearing up.

They got the trains running back on time double-quick; they made sure that the depleted British Stock could get the most appropriate and sensible medical care available. Everyone got a decent house, more or less gratis; all kids got a dose of calcium in the shape of cow juice every day; there's full employment because, uh, well, there's a bit of a shortfall in manpower... (cue: Feminism)

Blimey, less than twenty years after the more or less instantaneous collapse of the "Greatest Military and Economic Empire in History" (v.5.2), most Britons (well, those that were left), had "Never had it so good!"

Which is a debatable point, but I think the mini-skirt clinches it. :)

Actually, it did take another dose of Churchill (1951 - 1955) to make what the Hippies had built actually work; and then it was Tories all the way until their scandal-drenched early-1960's.

Then, decidedly Left Wing Labour spent the rest of the 1960's and ALL of the 1970's wrestling for control of the country with the increasingly Right Wing Conservative Party.

By the end of the 1970's, the shit from all this wrestling was piling up in the streets; and a mixture of apathy and disaffection eventually allowed "Milk-Snatcher" Thatcher's Conservative Party to take control of the country.

The moment she assumed power, she set about destroying the Left Wing institutions she felt were severely hampering Britain's progress. She was almost certainly correct, about the Labour Unions severely hampering Britain's progress. Not so sure she was correct to utterly destroy the Labour Unions as a response though...

There you go, History will be the judge of that.

It's not really fair to call Margaret Thatcher Right Wing, since it diminishes her benevolent, school-m'am-ish and sincere attitude to improving social services. Unfortunately, as an economist, she was utterly Right Wing; and coupled with a slavish devotion to that other Great Intellectual Economist of Our Time, President Ronald Reagan, between the two of them, they let the most powerful Economic forces in our Society, operate completely freely.

Though with Human participation, of course.

Ask the Miners.

And the Yuppies.

Anyhoo, if anyone in Britain in the 1980's could "Show You The Money!", then they probably didn't vote Labour. They certainly weren't in the Labour Party - which couldn't even afford to buy its Leader a new suit. No unions equalled no funding, simple as that.

Like rats deserting the sinking ship,  the more moderately Left Wing faction of the Labour Party schismed off to form an alliance with the Old Man of British Politics, the Liberal Party (aka "Whigs" - about 100 years ago...).

All this musical chairs to the Left of the stage meant that Thatcher and the Tories were free to move further over to the Right, which they duly did.

It was a movement she / they were able to maintain because of the "First Past the Post" Electoral System.

Tory candidates never needed to get an outright majority of votes cast in a constituency to win the seat; they only needed to get one vote more than the second-placed candidate. The more fractured the opposition vote - i.e. the more widely all non-Tory votes were cast - the lower the percentage needed to be achieved by the winning candidate.

I casually shaved off 25% of the votes cast up there, and variously distributed those shavings amongst spurious special interest groups. Once you split the remaining 75% three ways, well it starts to look like a coalition of the Green Party, the Monster Raving Looney Party, the British National Party, the United Islamic Front, the Zionists for a Greater Israel, the Free Tibet and "Let's-Bomb-Tehran-Back-To-The-Stone-Age" parties, could actually compete for 2nd or 3rd spot, if not the candidacy itself.

If coalitions were allowed at constituency level elections in the United Kingdom.

No, you press "Red", "Blue" or whatever colour the other lot are using these days. Them's your choices; take 'em or leave 'em.

So, you don't have to be a math wiz to work out that 26% is your first benchmark figure. If you can achieve 26% of votes cast then you are a solid contender; just depends what happens to the other 74% of votes.

Now don't forget here, that you're talking at most, a voter turnout around 60% in a General Election. If a sitting MP retires, dies or resigns in disgrace between General Elections, then his or her constituency must hold a By-Election. The process for a By-Election is exactly the same as during a General Election, only it receives about a 138th of the publicity. Voter turnout at By-Elections is invariably around the 30% mark.

Now the average number of registered voters in your constituency is going to be around 75,000 people. That means that in a General Election, roughly 45,000 are going to cast their votes, and in a By-Election, just over 22, 000 people are going to exercise their civic duty.

Now lop off 25% of the turnout as "seriously-concerned-citizens" who are actually going to try and make their vote count, with some bizarre scheme or other (the Green Party excepted). That leaves somewhere between 20 and 30 thousand people who you've got to convince to vote for the political party you represent.

I say "you", actually, it depends how much your political Central Office wants to convince that number of people to vote for you. But the result is the same.

And so are the political parties these days.

Just as with the American political system, it is all but impossible to discern a difference between the political parties these days. Political campaigning has become a superficial exercise in information manipulation these days; and most British voters tire of that these days. For all the somewhat obvious things that can be said about the British National Party's, uh, traditional manifesto, it / they do, rather ironically, bring a bit of colour into the Electoral System. :)

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/British_National_Party

So it's kind of at the point now - as I believe it is in the U.S., and Australia I guess - where it's only been the Traditionalist Voter who has been turning out.

The Traditionalist Voter is clearly and rather obviously, the voter who is going to vote "Red" or "Blue", come Hell or High Water, because, well, that's what they've been programmed to do.

Not cynically brainwashed, or subject to propaganda or anything, just unconsciously programmed by Tradition and "Family Values", Religion and the like. These are people who are going to vote Democrat, because their family fought for the Union a hundred and fifty years previously; these are people who are going to vote Republican because, well, that's what you do if you're a Redneck.

Exactly the same thing in the UK. There are legions of post-menopausal, Bluerinsed Tory ladies who would vote for a jar of pickle if it had a Conservative Blue rosette on it. And there are plenty of our comrades still fighting the good fight out there, on the barricades against Capitalism. Or some watered down version of same... Who are going to vote Labour regardless of internal changes have and are taking place.

Think of it like supporters of football teams (American or European). The notional idea is that they "Support their local team". If you're a native of Dallas, then you support the Cowboys; if you were born in Finsbury Park, then you support Arsenal. If you're born into a Labour voting family, chances are you'll vote Labour; if you're born to a Tory household, then you'll likely continue the family tradition.

You might say, well, what about rebellion? What about disaffection with the family and tradition? What about desertion to, The Other Side..?!? But those are possibilities and probabilities that are equally likely for both Parties, and over a fairly short period of time, tend to balance out.

"First Past the Post", single constituency elections are largely an anachronism these days. But as with all the most chronic problems in our Societies, the only people in a position to do anything about the situation, are the ones who are guaranteed to lose out with any change to the status quo.

"First Past the Post", single constituency elections benefit both the Governing Party, and its Binary Opposition. Different personalities occupy those different roles as time goes on, but the fundamental dynamic remains the same.

Now, that's probably as big as any annotation has a right to be: time for food. :)

Peace