Woo-Hoo! I'm all Vista'd up, and using Word 2007 to edit this response.

And all very sexy it is looking too. :)

In Reply To #66

If it is limited to the items above, then it is no big deal and not much different than other religious customs or internal laws of other religions.

I thought 'Slacks example was spot on.

The State or National Government has no business interfering with internal religious customs in the first place - provided they are not hurting anyone, inciting hatred, or contravening the democratically elected laws of the State.

There you go. Absolutely no disagreement.

One could argue that certain mosques in the UK are fomenting all types of intolerance and anti-Semitism, but that is a different argument.

It is, and one that would have to include the fact that certain British Nationalist parties are also inciting and fomenting intolerance, anti-Islamicism and anti-Semitism too.

The key distinction is that religious laws (even customs) are subordinated to the laws developed through a democratic process.

As they must be in today's multi-cultural and multi-sensible Societies.

Are you willing to entertain "separate but equal" laws for those listed above?  Even accepting separate courts?  Can Christians and Jews also have separate courts to decide child custody or inheritance issues in the UK too?  They certainly can't in the US.

Well  you know Foota, something I've mentioned a lot in the past is a system of Government called Plurarchy. In a Plurarchical System, members of distinct societies are permitted to establish their own systems of self-governance, with the ultimate sanction being only expulsion from their Society, and that sanction concomitant with the freedom of an individual to leave that Society whenever they chose.

I think that modern Human Society has established beyond intelligent disagreement certain inalienable and universal Human Rights. I think that these Human Rights, as they pertain to the Rights of every individual, should and must form the basis of every Society's fundamental precepts and tenets. And really we're talking here about not hurting anyone, physically or psychologically, at least as far as it is possible to prevent or punish deliberate acts of harm.

Child custody and inheritance issues, the examples you have chosen, are arguably more cultural issues than universally agreed Human Rights. With child custody, I would say that so long as the welfare and the rights of the child are held to be paramount, easily over and above any archaic or anachronistic patriarchal "morality", then the specifics of how such issues are decided probably should rest with the parent culture of the child in question.

But to answer your question, and to the best of my knowledge, child custody is still a matter for the civil courts in the UK and cannot be superseded by cultural traditions or "laws", at least in as far as specific cases come to the attention of the civil authorities.

Please don't tell me that all women living in separate ghetto communities will not be hurt by the sexist nature of Sharia - claiming that they can find recourse in the State if all else fails.  First generation immigrant women who don't know the language living in ghetto communities will have unfair pressure by their communities to accept Sharia.

That might be a false preposition Foota.

Chances are that first generation immigrant women aren't aware of any alternative to Sharia Law anyway. All the more reason, I would say, to try and ensure a more welcoming and integrating approach to immigration. If the alternative is that they remain in countries where they have zero protection from the more barbarous and primitive aspects of Sharia Law, whether they are aware of alternatives or not, then every effort must be made to try to encourage such communities to integrate with the new freedoms their new home can provide.

I believe implementing Sharia will only further alienate the communities in the UK.

I believe that communities that wish to implement the more primitive and patriarchal aspects of Sharia Law in the U.K. already feel alienated, but implementing such laws, where and how they can, will act as a block to integration.

And I believe that forcing them to abide by British customs and rituals (they are already compelled to abide by British Laws), will further alienate these communities.

Peace