In Reply To #34

In Reply To #31

I'm a bit confused here, what does racism have to do with free speech?  I don't recall saying that it should be illegal to say the things they are saying, just that they should be held responsible for them.

And I'm saying that anyone should be able to say anything they want, and should only be held responsible for the things they actually do.

What you are talking about is essentially Thought Crime.

Words spoken are just thoughts expressed. If certain individuals who happen to be Muslims express the desire to rid the World of all non-Muslims and violently establish a Pan-Islamic Caliphate, that's fine by me, I could care less what they desire.

If of course they set about the actions required to fulfil their desires, then that's another matter.

I, for instance, want to see ALL men on this Planet (apart from me) emasculated, leaving me as the only breeding male in Human Society. Now I can express that desire with impunity, and only if I try to enact what I like to call my Grand Project would other members of Society need to take preventative (or supportive, if they're female :)) action.

Now, you might say, well Holyman's Grand Project is totally unrealistic, nothing to worry about, just the ramblings of an over-sexed intellectual; the chances of his plan coming to pass are so negligible as to not be worth worrying about. But exactly the same applies to the dreams and wishes of radical Muslims.

Do you remember 20 years ago, when the whole World was terrified of the existential threat posed by Islamic radicals to the Rest of the non-Islamic World?

No. Neither do I. Weren't Communists the Bogeyman-of-the-Day back then?

The "Muslims" you are talking about are the majority inhabitants of the Middle East. That's the uh, same Middle East that the "West" keeps attacking and threatening.

Why is it okay, in your view, for the American Government and its representatives to constantly threaten (Islamic) countries in the Middle East with death and destruction, but it isn't acceptable for Muslims to reciprocate such threats; particularly given the American Government's immeasurably greater proclivity and facility for carrying through those threats to actions?

Thoughts aren't crimes.

But hypocrisy probably should be.

Peace