In Reply To #92

Bah! No response to me?  I was looking forward to it.

Sorry! Sorry! Sorry!

Most remiss of me...

In Reply To #72

In Reply To #61

You missunderstood what I meant about being held responsible for ones words.  A person is not punished for simply screaming I have a bomb/gun in an airplane, they are punished because of the scare they give to the other passengers/crew/government.

Well, you've kind of answered your own point there.

You won't be punished for what you've said: you'll be punished for what you did, or attempted to do.

I.e. attempting to deliberately cause panic on an airplane.

The substance and meaning of your words are irrelevant: your intent is to cause panic; frighten the Life out of people; and endanger a plane in flight.

A person is not put in jail for their words when the incite a riot, they are punished for the riot itself.

Same thing here. The intent is to incite a riot, not to pursue the free expression of ideas.

Now what happens to the person who tries to incite a riot, and is ignored? I.e. no riot ensues?

Is a person charged with incitement to riot when no riot took place?

Same thing with the actions on a plane.

I could say the same words, but in a different context. Say for instance we were having this conversation on a plane. You would have said the words "I have a bomb/gun", but within the context of our conversation. That would be very different to your suddenly standing on your seat and screaming "I have a bomb/gun!". You would and should be punished for the latter, but it's highly unlikely you would be punished for the former.

Remember, we are talking about the free expression of ideas here as a bedrock of the principle of Free Speech. It's a philosophical/intellectual debate, not a legal one.

Foota's (and other's) contention is that certain people should not be allowed to express certain ideas, lest certain weak-minded and easily influenced individuals use those ideas as motivation to commit crimes. I'm not saying we don't punish the crimes - we can, should and must. But I am saying that anyone and everyone should be able to express and articulate their ideas, no matter how repugnant or offensive they may appear to others.

There's a difference between the expression of ideas, and the expression of intent.

If someone states "I am going to kill this person", with serious intent, then of course that person should be brought to arrest. Such "speech" isn't the expression of an idea, it is a clear expression of intent.

And Imam preaching to his congregation that Muslims must unite and defeat the Great Satan that is the United States of America (and/or its associates), is the expression of an idea. It is rhetoric; it is hyperbole; it is the expression of an (actually reactive) idea.

It isn't a particularly pleasant idea, especially if you're not a Muslim. But it is just an idea.

Even Rag-heads aren't stupid enough to discuss their actual plans for World domination in a Mosque crawling with undercover TV reporters....

Men with as much influence as those imams should be held responsible for the influence they have over many Muslims.  If their words breed terrorists I don't see why they shouldn't be held responsible for the words that lead up to terrorist attacks.

Well perhaps they should.

But such legislation as would be effective, and agreeable to Society, couldn't specifically proscribe the influence that Islamic Imams have over their Muslim congregations.

How would the preaching of an Imam differ from the President of the United States' Call to Arms? How would the threats issuing forth from the minarets be any different to the threats to Iran, Syria and North Korea issuing forth from Fox News?

President Bush's words undoubtedly breed the intent in many Americans to go fight in the "War on Terrorism" in Iraq and the wider Middle East.

What is the substantive difference?

On a side note though, I wonder what would happen if I walked into that Mosque and wanted to watch a "service."  I off course, in this case, would make no effort to fit in and let them know what faith I came from.  I wonder if I would just get my ass kicked of if this bunch would actually kill me for my faith.

Where do you live SJ?

I can assure you that if you wanted to attend a prayer meeting at a Mosque, you would receive a warm and gracious welcome in all but the most radicalised Mosques.

You would of course be required to show respect to the Islamic tradition, by removing your shoes and ensuring that your dress are suitably conservative, but that isn't any different to your being required to remove your hat when you enter a Christian church.

I have attended Islamic services in Mosques in London, Birmingham, Egypt and Turkey, and I can assure you that by far the majority of Islamic congregations welcome non-Muslims.

How do you suppose Muslim converts begin their journey?

This really does come down to an issue of double standards. America and its (dwindling number of) allies feels that it should be able to threaten sections of the Islamic World with impunity. But any expressions of solidarity within the Muslim World should, apparently, be prohibited.

What happened on the 11th September, 2001, was a sequential and contiguous event in the "Jihad" against America being carried out by extremists under the banner of Al Qaeda, representing a miniscule faction of the wider Islamic Society. It wasn't the first or last act of any "War", actual or contrived.

That "War" was escalated by the response of the United States, incidentally killing far more Muslims than the number of Americans killed on 9/11. The Bush Administration wants to continue the "War on Terror"; and Islamic radicals also want that "War" to continue.

I've personally got nothing but contempt for both parties to the Conflict, and fail to see why one party should be held to a different standard than the other.

Peace