In Reply To #68

In Reply To #61

And I'm saying that anyone should be able to say anything they want, and should only be held responsible for the things they actually do.

What you are talking about is essentially Thought Crime.

At least in the US, we have "hate-speech" laws that limits some sorts of free expression.  The KKK burning crosses is an example.  There are parts of Europe where denying the Holocaust is a crime as well.  As you know, not all speech is protected.

Yeah, that's true. How fucking silly is that?

I thought we all learned that sticks and stones can break bones, but words don't bring down buildings or eviscerate bystanders....

In the case of the 7/7 bombers in Britain, did these home-grown terrorists just wake up one day and decide to become suicide killers, or were they indoctrinated through hate speech (thought crimes) from their mosques?

Well, the first option is a straw option, obviously, but whilst indoctrination will have played a (the?) major part, you can't rule out CNN's and BBC News 24's involvement in reporting events in the Middle East and George Bush's speeches.

Come to that, I think you'd have to strongly consider the Project for a New American Century as an inciter to violence too.

Point to consider is how many people have heard hate-filled speeches and not become indoctrinated? And also, what about members of the U.S. military, did they just wake up one day and decide they wanted to go kill Arabs? Or where they indoctrinated into thinking that the World would be a better place if those countries that form the "Axis of Evil" were eliminated?

No clear thinking person can argue that the UK freeing millions of religious Shia from a "secular" Sunni dictatorship is sufficient grievance for a British Muslim (born and raised in the UK) to kill himself and hundreds of their fellow countrymen on a train.

But a clear thinking person might argue that overthrowing a Sunni Muslim Government might be sufficient grievance for British Sunni Muslims.

Or do they all look the same to you Foota?

I would argue that the things they "actually do" like bombing trains is merely the symptom of the problem.  While the disease is the "ideology" of radical Islam that indoctrinates young people to bigotry and Islamic supremacism.

How do you cure an ideological disease Foota?

Clearly attacking the ideology and slaughtering its adherents only serves to strengthen and calcify it. Do you really think that prohibiting public expressions of such ideologies is either practical or purposeful?

Wouldn't you rather have these individuals preaching what they do in the open, where they can be observed and monitored, than driving them underground?

Or do you think in this day and age of Internet communications that if you close the Mosques and incarcerate the ideologues, the ideology will just fade away?

I think we can nip the "clash of civilizations" in the bud early by treating everyone like grown-ups with the same standards in the paticular country they reside.  We have to stop trying to rationalize away bigotry and hate speech IMO.

Fine.

Your homework assignment is to rationalise Bush's "Axis of Evil" speech, and explain why promoting hatred of Iran is the rational and non-bigoted thing to do.

Extra credit will be given for not making references to World War Two.

Peace