In Reply To #96

In Reply To #91

What denies Muslims the Universal "Right of Brotherhood"?

They can have all of the "brotherhood" they want, but they can't use their "brotherhood" to justify blowing up trains like the 3/11 and 7/7 bombers did.

Justify, justify, justify...

Don't you justify the Rape of Iraq Foota? Your "justification" for that is as incomprehensible to me as the justification put forward by Islamists for their actions. Both are actions not at all likely to earn the sympathy of un-believers.

You're stuck in a partisan fug Foota, it hobbles your ability to engage in debates like these.

You see 9/11 as the justification for the Rape of Iraq; Islamists see the Rape of Iraq as justification for their actions.

I'm neither a supporter of Islamist or American violence. Do I have to be either "With You or Against You"? Or can't I just consider both groups as violent criminals, doing nothing to advance the Evolution of Humanity?

Clearly radical Muslims feel justified in their actions; and the Bush Administration feels justified in its actions. As far as I'm concerned, there's no justification for offensive violence. Period.

If you can justify your support for American violence, why can't certain Muslims justify Islamist violence?

And don't pretend that many in the UK (including you) did not blame 7/7 or 3/11 on the Iraq war.  Didn't you write an article for "Counterpunch" on the subject? Were the 7/7 and 3/11 bombers even Iraqis or Palestinians?

You take speciousness to a whole new level, don't you Foota?

Are Americans Iraqis or Israelis? Why is it acceptable to you for America to side with Shia Iraqis (yeah right!) against Sunni Iraqis, but not acceptable for British Muslims to side with their co-religionists?

I didn't blame 7/7 on the Invasion of Iraq in my CounterPunch Article. I said that if Blair wanted to join Bush in declaring War (on Terrorism/Iraq/Muslims/Whatever), then War is what he would get.

Civilians and non-combatants die in Wars.

Or weren't you aware of that?

And it is, was and never will be about "Freeing Shias from Saddam's 'secular' Sunni (OXYMORON ALERT! - or maybe just a Moron Alert... :)) Baathists"....)

It will "never be"?  Earth to Holyman - for better or worse it has already happened.  Shiism is on the rise from Lebanon through Iran.  Let the Sunni Wahabbis worry about something else in their own neighborhood for a while.

Ex-squeeze me? You, an ardent supporter of American intervention in the Middle East, are demanding that Wahabbi Muslims in the Middle East should mind their own business..?

Do you even take what you say seriously Foota?

And whilst the contradiction alarm is ringing: didn't you just state that the purpose of the U.S. Invasion of Iraq was to "Free Shias from Saddam's Sunni Baathists"; and now you're talking about Shiism being "on the rise"?

This is precisely my point.  It seems (from my reading of British press and politicians) that all of the terrorism discussions revolve around blaming it on "our actions" and not the 1300 year old issues of Islam that you point out.

"Your actions" included the Invasion and Occupation of Iraq, and creating the conditions where these 1300 year old resentments could be given full-throat.

Next you'll be saying that someone should have warned you this might happen...

You go on later to call Radical Islam a "repugnant ideology" and have called it "primitive" in the past.  Why don't we ever discuss the "root causes" of their "1300 year old issues" as opposed to constantly deflecting it on Israel or the West?

Okay Foota. If you think it's worthwhile.

Let's have a discussion on the Shia-Sunni divide.

You can go first...

Peace