In Reply To #99

In Reply To #97

Justify, justify, justify...

You see 9/11 as the justification for the Rape of Iraq; Islamists see the Rape of Iraq as justification for their actions.

Huh?  The "Rape of Iraq"?  Are you insinuating that America just went into Iraq for a punitive raid "rubble doesn't make trouble" to beat up on some Arabs?  When in fact, we have spent the last 3+ years trying to foster a representative and tolerant government at great cost to our blood and treasure.

No, I'm not insinuating anything.

What I'm describing is this:

"America" (Read: The Bush Administration) decided that Iraq "Wanted It."

"America" decided that Iraq "Wanted It" so much, that America's forced penetration into Iraq would be welcomed, celebrated, enjoyed.

And from these erotic fantasies grew the actual, violent, damaging, shaming penetration of a sovereign and much weaker nation, by an over-powering, bullying and ignorant nation, with its penis-shaped missiles, and overwhelming physical prowess.

The Invasion of Iraq was not a righteous War, but a pre-emptive attack, rationalised on faulty ideas, imagination and greed. America raped Iraq. It began with forced, non-consensual penetration and despoliation. Guilt followed, and more delusion, and stubborn refusal to admit the action.

And you know what the Rapist does following firstly the eroticisation and then the Rape? When he can't believe that the Rape was not welcomed?

He blames the victim.

It's not a War Foota, it's a Rape.

You are doing it again.  Essentially any Muslim no matter where they are born or nationality can look at the enforcement of 17 UN resolutions on Iraq and justify killing random civilians in Europe.

No Foota: YOU are doing it again.

You are trying to dictate to Muslims what they can and can't justify. And guess what? You believe that the only things that Muslims can justify, are what YOU have justified. Anything that YOU can't find a justification for, is unjustifiable by anyone else.

The Rape of Iraq had nothing to do with the enforcement of 17 UN Resolutions, otherwise it would have been a UN action, or at the very least, been a UN approved action. When in fact, the UN categorically declared the US Invasion of Iraq to be illegal and in breach of the founding principles of the United Nations, most notably the inviolability of sovereign integrity.

And you know this already, I shouldn't have to keep telling you.

You won't flat out say you agree with their "justification" - but you are giving them tacit support by even entertaining their argument as being somehow legitimate or a natural response.

Right.

I'm either with you, or against you. That's how it works in your silly little World, isn't it Foota? I don't agree completely with you, therefore I must support "them", tacitly or otherwise.

I repeatedly and flat out state that there is no justification for offensive violence. Iraq had nothing to do with 9/11. Iraq had no Weapons of Mass Destruction. Iraq was not a threat to its neighbours. There was no justification or purpose to the Invasion of Iraq. In fact, as I and many others predicted, it would be a totally counter-productive action, creating far, far more problems than it would solve.

There IS a justification for "their" violence against the invading US forces, and that is as a legitimate resistance struggle against that invading force. I give those individuals fighting against the U.S. presence in Iraq my full and unequivocal support.

There is no justification whatsoever for acts of criminal terroristic violence against civilian non-combatants. And that applies whether it is terrorists flying aeroplanes into civilian buildings, or terrorists dropping bombs on civilians from aeroplanes.

The United States of America has killed far, far, far more civilians with its indiscriminate bombing campaigns, than Islamist terrorists have.

Why do Muslim extremists kill random civilians over what they see as religious persecution, while Christians, Jews and Hindus around the world do not?  Can you point to any mainstream Christian, Jewish or Hindu leader calling their flock to "crusades" to kill random Muslim civilians sitting on trains?

Yes.

United States military forces, under the urging of a Christian President, have indiscriminately killed Muslim civilians sitting on trains, in buses, cars, taxis, on foot, in their homes and in the street.

Jewish Israeli forces have indiscriminately killed Muslim civilians in exactly the same way.

The only difference being that the United States and Israel have indiscriminately killed far more Muslim civilians than Islamist terror groups have killed civilians of all ilks.

Is the "War on Terror" not a Crusade?

Is Zionism not a religiously motivated struggle for territorial control.

Why the double standard Holyman?

You tell me.

In Reply To #98

HOLY MAN JUST PWNOD FOOTA WOOOT PWNED FOOTA PWNED FOOOTA HE PWNED FOOTAAAA

Thanks for the support HelicioNOD, I fully appreciate the sentiment, but there's something I'd like to say to you regarding this whole concept of PWNAGE.

I do not respect "Foota's" views in anyway, because I don't believe they are his views. But it is those views that I address, in my dialogue with Foota.

My intent is absolutely NOT to Pwn Foota, or his views. Very, very much the opposite. I would actually like to try and achieve détente with Foota.

I do learn from my dialogue with Foota, and I flatter myself that he learns a little from me. One of the biggest obstacles to productive debate in our dialogue is that Foota often personalises the debate into an issue of which one of us is "Right". This often colours our debates in a negative and unproductive way, because whilst I am trying to discuss the actual issues with a representative of an opposing ideology to mine own, Foota often reduces the debate to an attempt to gain "One Up" on me.

This brinkmanship derails and dilutes the substance of our debates. It makes them about which one of us knows the most, which one of us is best informed, which one of us has formed the most correct and appropriate conclusions, which one of us is "Right", and which one of us is "Wrong".

The big, big problem right now in the political situation in the United States, specifically relating to Foreign Policy and Iraq, is the refusal to admit the colossal mistake that is this Iraq misadventure.

The primary reason for this refusal is the way that those on Foota's side of the political divide are very well versed in savaging the mistakes and errors of their opponents.

Because Foota will leap with glee on the slightest inconsistency, perceived or otherwise, in arguments of the "opposition", his greatest fear (within the context of these debates) is suffering the same treatment should he ever be seen to make a mistake or be inconsistent.

The prospect of being "Pwnd" is precisely what keeps Foota and his ilk (all the way up the Mistake-Maker-in-Chief) resolute in their commitment to clearly flawed and erroneous strategies.

The Right-Wing body politic have become so indoctrinated in "Attack-Dog" politics that they can't see any other consequence to their admission of colossal mistakes, than their being on the receiving end of the bullying and disparagement that they so freely dish out to their political opposites.

The situation in relation to Iraq needs fixing, urgently. The longer the situation continues, the harder it will be to fix. The primary obstacle to beginning to fix the situation in Iraq, is for the Bush Administration and its supporters to acknowledge the tremendous errors of judgement and strategy they have made. But since they have been bullying and intimidating everyone who tried to warn them against those mistakes over the last four years, the only consequence they can see to their admitting these tremendous errors, is that they will in turn be bullied.

I don't want to "Pwn" Foota. I don't want to see Foota wearing a hair-shirt. I don't even desire or need to see Foota pay penance or even demonstrate contrition. I would like to see him face up to Reality. I would like to see him acknowledge the colossal mistakes that have been made in Iraq.

But not so that I can feel good about myself, not so that I can feel triumphant in our dialogue: but because I would like to see the situation in Iraq fixed.

It can only be fixed after it is accepted as utterly broken, and those who broke it - and continue to break it - admit and acknowledge their responsibility.

Only then can we begin the far lengthier, far more difficult process of repairing the damage, and building the

Peace