In Reply To #73

Wait a minute - what gives Muslims the universal "right of brotherhood" to claim grievances in lands they have never lived nor have any physical connection other then their religion?  Particularly the Muslim converts like shoe-bomber Richard Reid?

That's a false proposition Foota.

What denies Muslims the Universal "Right of Brotherhood"?

Are you denying the right of the United States of America to claim solidarity with Israel?

And as for:

"...nor have any physical connection other than their religion?"

You really don't understand Religion at all, do you?

Given how much you bang on about a group of people identified (by you) by their Religion - both Muslims and Jews - maybe you should get yourself to Church and find God.

Can you name me a single other religion or ethnicity that is "allowed" to justify international terrorism on similar specious grounds?

Well, talking about speciousness...

Can you name a single religion, ethnicity, ideology or Women's Institute organisation that IS allowed to justify International Terrorism?

As far as I'm concerned/aware: there is NO justification for International Terrorism.

And that includes the terrorism carried out by the Zionist (that's an ethnic/religious ideology btw) Government of Israel.

Why the hell are you validating their "cause" to terrorism Holyman?

Why the Hell do imagine I'm validating anyone's "cause to terrorism [sic]" Foota?

I'm the Pacifist around here. Remember?

Of course they don't "look" the same.  I would argue that good meaning people like you "treat" them the same by excusing Radical Islamic terrorism with simplistic slogans like "America attacking Islam".

"Islam attacking America" isn't a simplistic slogan because..?

When in reality, it is much more complex.  Freeing Shias from Saddam's "secular" Sunni Baathists is hardly a war against Islam.

It's not a War at all Foota.

And it is, was and never will be about "Freeing Shias from Saddam's 'secular' Sunni (OXYMORON ALERT! - or maybe just a Moron Alert... :)) Baathists".

Or are you going to argue that Iraq's Sunnis are devout Radicals like Al Qaeda?

Well, yes, I would argue that those Iraqis engaged in Resistance against the U.S. Occupation, and sectarian violence against - what was it again? - another religious grouping, are observably DEVOTED (conjugate Foota, conjugate...) to their cause. And their tactics do seem pretty radical to me.

In the case of the home-grown British Sunni Muslims that turned into suicide bombers - why doesn't anyone ask them why they thought it was fair for a minority Sunni population to brutally subjugate the majority Shia for decades?

Because they were, uh, SUICIDE bombers, and it's pretty difficult to get their views on anything now...

Ask the Sunnis in Britain why they would support an "insurgency" that targets Muslim women and children in Shia neighborhoods killing 20 at a time?  Are the Shia the wrong kind of Muslim?

I believe that is precisely the 1300 year old opinion of Sunni Muslims, yes.

If so, what the hell does it make us infidels or "kaffirs"?

The fact that "we" are not Muslims?

How do you cure an ideological disease Foota?

Clearly attacking the ideology and slaughtering its adherents only serves to strengthen and calcify it. Do you really think that prohibiting public expressions of such ideologies is either practical or purposeful?

Why are you dumbing down the argument?

Really? I am the one "dumbing" down the argument?

I thought I just tried to elevate it to a more intellectual discourse on how to deal with socially repugnant ideologies... But there you go, let's get back to speciousness.

Who said anything about "prohibiting" speech.  I want the British people (and the world) to "confront" such speech and require the bigoted Imams to defend their teachings publicly.  Get it all out in the open and gain some clarity.

Riiiight...

So NOBODY is confronting radical Islamism at the moment then?

Are you suggesting that British people are supporting and promoting radical Islamism?

Or is it just that in your Black & White, Binary Alternative World, failure to declare a, uh, Jihad (War on an Ideology) on radical Islamism equates to active support?

Whereas it seems that some people would rather ignore it, or walk on egg-shells in the vain hope that it will just go away.

Actually, I think "some people" would rather bring reason and balance to an ideological conflict that has become far too emotive. So emotive in fact, that the actions of those hysterically opposed to radical Islamism seem to do nothing but exacerbate the problem and provide legitimacy to Islamist's grievances.

Bottom line - no person (religious leader or not) should be allowed to preach such bigotry and hatred in a free nation without challenge.

What's the difference between Islamism and Zionism Foota?

I am amazed (but not suprised) that you are trying to rationalize this hate speech.

I'm neither amazed nor surprised that you are reading what you want to read, rather than what I'm actually writing.

Peace

IRT TED:

Of COURSE you don't know what an Undercover Mosque looks like: they're UNDERCOVER.

(I suggest you visit your local branch of Halfords and see if all those so-called "car mats" aren't really prayer mats...)