[quote="Wunderschlung"][quote="Holyman"]To aim for Unity on the Greatest Scale possible is the obviously and ultimately intelligent thing for Human Beings to do.[/quote]

We share this philosophy HM, and i have a theory, a plot maybe?

If we made contact with intelligent life on another planet, they will almost definitely have evolved from predators. That will make for one unified planet working together to better our chances against an extra-terrestrial threat, rather than an international one, methinks.

Soooo, say strings could be pulled by the intelligentsia in the likes of NASA, to make the powers that be think that, we may then find ourselves in this one nation Earth type situation.

Wunder stops war, famine, etc on Earth, and is awarded the Obama Prize For Cool Dude.[/quote]

It's certainly an interesting theory Wunder, and one that deserves closer examination...

There are a few points that spring to my mind:

The first is the assumption that humans automatically bond and unify when faced with a common threat.

Personally, I think that's just the kind of propagandistic idea that politicians *LOVE* people to believe. Being faced with a National (or International) Security Emergency is invariably the prize that all career politicians dream of. National Security emergencies allow politicians to bypass or completely suspend the tedious and contentious aspects of governance; and just get on with being "A Great Leader", whose authority must not be questioned in "Time of War".

They don't even need to bother balancing the books while the "War"/Emergency is on. War Spending is the equivalent of a trip to Las Vegas for politicians: they can just go wild, and postpone worrying about paying for the trip until they get home and have to deal with the hangover...

And of course, they even get to take a bit of time off politicking and electioneering: because "Everyone Supports the Leader during Time of War" - that's a given...

It's also complete bullshit; just as the idea that everyone unifies against the common enemy is also bullshit.

For example, let's take a look at the Great British Public during World War Two. The folk mythology is that all Brits "came together" during the Blitz; that they defeated Hitler and the Luftwaffe with their "Spirit of the Blitz".

Well, for starters even those of us with a rudimentary Historical knowledge of Britain during World War Two know that there was a thriving Black Market, with "Spivs" gouging needy Brits for anything and everything they could supply.

http://www.historylearningsite.co.uk/black_market.htm

And let's also not forget the infidelities of British women, who were basically happy to turn themselves into prostitutes, whilst their husbands were away fighting, in exchange for a few of life's luxuries. Then there was the fact that the most common response of city dwellers to air-raids, was to get out of their air-raid shelters as soon as it was nearly safe to do so, so that they could go on a massive looting spree.

http://www.guardian.co.uk/society/2010/aug/29/blitz-london-crime-flourish-blackout

http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1307547/Loose-women-looting-murder--darker-Blitz-Spirit.html

And of course, as far as unequivocal support of the "War Leader" is concerned, you only have to look at how a grateful British Public treated Winston Churchill and his colleagues, a couple of months after the War finished in Europe (but was still going on in Asia...).

Moving out into the World or signs of National Unity in the face of a common threat, we can look at: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vichy_France Vichy France, under Marshall Petain; http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vidkun_Quisling Quisling in Norway; and http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leon_Rupnik Rupnik of Yugoslavia.

One of the most striking examples from elsewhere in History is the response of Native Americans to the existential threat posed to them by European Colonists. If the 45-plus million Native Americans had set aside their own tribal differences, and united to overwhelm the mere thousands of (albeit fire-armed) European settlers, they could have saved themselves (and Perpetuity...) a whole lot of grief...

Instead, like the Vichy and Quisling European regimes during World War Two, they saw an opportunity to settle scores and achieve greater power for themselves, by siding with the invading forces.

History really is replete with far more examples of *DISUNITY* in the face of external aggression, than a galvanising of common purpose.

Just ask the Judean Peoples' Front (executives)...

The second point that springs to my mind is that the Dis-United Peoples of Earth (DUPE) already face a wide variety of existential challenges that equally threaten every human being, regardless of nationality, race, creed or economic status.

The most apparent and obvious of these is the clear loss of equilibrium between the Human Species and the rest of the natural terrestrial environment.

Arguing about environmental, ecological and biological science is something that should be sensibly left to scientists who understand what it is they are arguing about (though as far as I am aware, they are pretty much in full agreement, as it goes...). But recognising when one component of a System is clearly out of whack with the rest of it, is something that we human males are supposed to be able to do intuitively well.

Only a fool continues to argue against his own self-destructive behaviour, when the evidence of and expert testimony to that self-destruction is all around him.

Right SomeGuy?

Or what about Economic and associated Social Catastrophe?

For the last four years, we have all been dealing with the consequences of the loudest and biggest "Bang!" in Economic History, by trying to pretend that the Global Capitalist Economic System hasn't, in fact, turned totally to shit.

"Our" Leaders have spent the time period since, shovelling as much of "Our" wealth over to the very people that fucked everything up in the first place. Doing everything they can to prevent us realising just how big a pile of shit everything has turned into, whilst looting as much of anything left of value as possible.

Whilst whole countries like Greece, Portugal and Spain are being squeezed through the wringer; our species' top 100 earners last year, earned an average of [b]*$2.4BILLION EACH*[/b]. Enough money, amongst other things, to end Global Poverty four times over.

http://www.oxfam.org/en/pressroom/pressrelease/2013-01-19/annual-income-richest-100-people-enough-end-global-poverty-four-times

And those banks who created the mess? Who have benefited from the losses on their reckless gambles being paid for by the World's taxpayers: well, they're doing just fine...

http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-21044121

Clearly, allowing this kind of behaviour to continue will - http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2013/01/23/christine-lagarde-at-davos-europe-must-guard-against-relapse-in-2013.html as the Head of the International Monetary Fund warned the top financial power-brokers gathered in Switzerland this week - lead only to disaster.

So, there we go Wunder. Promise I'm not trying to damp your enthusiasm. You know I believe just as passionately and at least as optimistically as you do in a Positive, Progressive, Unified World.

Just saying that the whole "Unite Against the Common Enemy" theory is more of the same old, same old.

All those Highly Evolved Beings waiting at the periphery of our awareness of Space-Time... Are just watching for the moment when we finally demonstrate our Collective and Responsible Maturity. At which point they will introduce us to an entire Universe of stuff that will blow in our minds.

We'll get there in the end, I'm certain of it.

:>_