I think that charging tuition fees for Higher Education is a very short-sighted policy.

And let's be clear on that point: it's just the tuition fees that students are protesting against. No-one is suggesting that students "extra-curricular activities", or even their accommodation costs should be paid for by the State.

It's just the tuition fees, 'k?

There'd be uproar if all the state primary and secondary schools charged tuition fees, not to mention a much less educated population as those families unable to pay the fees simply didn't send their kids to school.

So why should it kick in at the Higher Education level?

The theory is that students who get a University Education are going to earn more, so it's justifiable to charge them.

This is bollocks because a University degree doesn't automatically guarantee a higher paying job - particularly in an economy with rising unemployment. And many University students don't necessarily have a high-paying job in mind when they elect to pursue Higher Education. A lot of charitable work requires a high standard of education, but doesn't pay much more than subsistence wages.

Debt is a very difficult trap to escape from. Requiring new entrants to the job market to begin their careers saddled with debt, can more or less cancel out the benefit of a higher education.

A better educated population will, in time, become a more productive and capable population, generating more revenue for the Economy as a whole. It follows that the more people that can be educated at the highest levels, should be encouraged and facilitated to do so, since the dividends will be returned as their education matures into vocational productivity.

Not everyone is suited to benefit from a higher education, and no-one is suggesting that Universities should lower their academic standards. But actually, the by-product of raising tuition fees is that only those who can afford to attend University will apply, and since the Universities will need to compete for those fee-payers, they will in any case have to lower their academic qualifications for entrance.

Charging tuition fees at all for higher education is a short-sighted and counter-productive policy. Raising them to the levels proposed is rank stupidity.

[face_peace]