This really isn't any different to the situation that British car-makers found themselves in, during the 1970's.

Basically, there is a very large manufacturing infrastructure, making products that nobody wants to buy.

Excessive unionisation has stifled innovation, due to skill protectionism. The thing about SUV's and other gas-guzzling cars is that they are technologically obsolete. But you can't upgrade the technology, if the person whose job it is to manufacture the old technology, refuses to re-skill. And you can't make him (or her) redundant, if it will cause the whole workforce to strike.

In short then, then U.S. auto-manufacturing industry within the U.S. is technologically and culturally obsolete. Nobody outside of the U.S. wants to buy American autos; and fewer and fewer people within the U.S. can afford to either buy them or run them.

This is exactly the same situation faced by once proud British auto marques in the late 1960's and throughout the 1970's. Attempts to bail-out the makers of Austin, Morris and Triumph cars were continually attempted by the U.K. Government, from the late 1960's onwards; the eventual nationalisation of the British car manufacturing industry in 1975 - as British Leyland - was as inevitable as was its eventual re-privatisation and bankruptcy.

The simple fact is that whilst it is arguable whether owning a car is a vital necessity or not; there is no arguing that there is no necessity whatsoever for owning a car that happens to have been made in your own country.

When superior technology and craftsmanship (Japanese cars) can be obtained at a cheaper price, and better quality and performance (German cars) is available at a reasonable premium, how exactly is Nationalism supposed to inform a car buyer's choice?

The Nationalised British Car Industry was, from the outset, merely a government welfare program in a poor disguise: better to keep the car workers - and associated industries - utilised making products that nobody wanted (largely because they degraded and depreciated so quickly), than have them hanging around the dole office.

It's the same consideration in the U.S. at the moment.

There is clearly no commercial reason whatsoever to keep the big 3 U.S. auto-makers in business, now, or in the foreseeable future. The only reason why a bail-out is being contemplated, is to maintain a sense of national pride by keeping a semblance of the manufacturing base on which the American Empire was founded; and in order to keep two and a half million people off the unemployment register.

It would make far more economic sense to send all the auto- and associated workers home, and spend the proposed bailout funds on re-training them to do other work; or funding and promoting more entrepreneurial enterprise.

When a Nation doesn't have a nationalised health service, because of ideological opposition to such a prospect; it is unconscionable that it would consider having a nationalised auto-manufacturing industry.

Citizens' health is morally and economically far more important than their ability to patriotically drive a home-nation produced car.

[face_peace]