[quote=sgtsuckyshot]Just kinda curious where you're getting all these doomsday predictions from Holy, because, honestly, I think a lot of people are blowing this out of proportion.

I'm no econ student, but I have studied history a lot, and there have been plenty of situations worse than this (not even counting the great depression) that the US bounced back from. Sure the process was a painful one, laced with violence in many situations (especially into the latter part of the 19th Century), but the US came out of all of them, many times when people thought it was going to be the end of the country, similar to what is being said now.

I just don't get it...[/quote]

Ah, fair enough Sucky: Economics is about as arcane, mystical and interesting to the uh, non-denominational, as Religion. So I'll try my best here to explain the background of my assessment, and really the context for what I believe is taking place at the moment.

Before I do though, just a quick disclaimer:

If I could predict, with full confidence and assurance, exactly what is going to happen to the economy of the United States, and the World Economy as a whole; and more importantly, if I could predict [b]*WHEN*[/b] things will happen... Well, I wouldn't be sitting here typing to you: I'd be out there making an absolute killing on the Stock and Currency Markets.

For anyone to claim that they know exactly what will happen and when it will happen, in the Economic Markets, would be like their claiming to know what the Lottery numbers will be every week for the foreseeable future.

Perhaps a more realistic analogy would be to talk about weather cycles and meteorological events in the Future. Simply, the Human Global Economic System is so vastly complex and contrived, and influenced my so many different factors, that there still is no foreseeable computer or computing technology that has the power or capacity to accurately model (and predict) the entire Economic System of Human Society.

And to explain my own credentials in writing this post Sucky, I would say that I spent most of the 1990's working for investment banks like Goldman Sachs and Citibank, trying to develop computing systems that could even come close to being able to predict market fluctuations and Economic cycles, with only very limited success.

So don't imagine for a second that I'm trying to suggest that I have the absolute and final answers to what is coming down the Economic Turnpike for Humanity, because I'm not. But equally, consider that just as I can't absolutely guarantee Economic disaster for the United States' Economy; nor can anyone else predict with any greater confidence, the safety and security of same.

The Truth is that for most of us, Economics is a soporific on a par with politics and religion. And just as politicians and religionists prefer to maintain the arcane and mystical aura that surrounds their social fiefdoms, this is at least as true for Economists, who positively profit from investor ignorance about the inner workings of their financial instruments and practices.

Alright then, let's get down to cases.

You mention America's past economic travails, and how the U.S. Economy has recovered from very difficult Economic situations before. But the situation that the American Economy is in now, is completely unique to any situation it has been in before.

It is not, however, a situation unique in World History.

The situation is that the United States Economy is currently the largest Economy in the World. This has been pretty much the case, on the whole, since the end of World War Two. It is this position that paves the way for the forthcoming Economic catastrophe for the U.S.

Simply, the only direction that the U.S. Economy can now move, in relation to other World Economies, is down. It already occupies the #1 Slot, so it can't go up any further, and that only leaves one other option...

More pertinently though, the position that the U.S. Economy has held relative to other World Economies, for the past sixty years, has created a situation unique in U.S. Economic History. And that is that the U.S. Currency - the Dollar - is the [i]de facto[/i] Reserve Currency for all other World Economies.

The forthcoming Economic Hurricane is not directly related to the decline in the worth of the U.S. Dollar; nor directly related to budget deficits, current account deficits, and trade imbalance: the Hurricane will hit when the U.S. Dollar finally loses its status as the World's Reserve Currency.

Now forgive me in advance if you detect any degree of patronisation in the following - it isn't intended; but I'll try to explain that situation more fully, and detail its implications, as simply as I can. You did say that you were no "economics student"; so I'll take that acknowledgement as a guide to frame the following explanation.

In times of past economic woe for the United States, the U.S. Dollar was not the World's Reserve Currency; nor was it the currency in which the World's most sought after natural resource - oil - was traded in. What has really changed for Global Economics since the end of World War Two is that the major currencies are no longer backed by a commodity standard - in most cases, gold. Rather, major currencies - including the USD - are now what are called [i]fiat[/i] currencies.

This means that instead of the value of the USD being backed by reserves of gold held in the U.S. Central Bank - the Federal Reserve - the worth of the USD is backed by U.S. Government fiat, or edict. Basically, a guarantee that the U.S. Government will (somehow) find the funds to guarantee the value of the USD; rather than the USD's value being tied to the value of the U.S. Government's gold reserves.

In other words: the USD is not worth what it is, because it is a promissory note related to a tangible commodity (gold); but because the U.S. Government [b]*SAYS*[/b] it is worth what it is.

The reason why the USD has held its status as the World's Reserve Currency these past sixty years, above all other [i]fiat[/i] currencies; is because the U.S. Government and Economy has, during that period, been considered to be the most stable and certain of all World Economies. In other words, when the U.S. Government has said its currency is worth what it is, everyone outside the U.S. has believed it.

Now, what we mean by "Reserve Currency" is the currency that is held in large quantities, by governments and institutions, in their foreign exchange reserves. It is also the currency in which commodities like oil and gold are traded internationally. Foreign Exchanges may hold many different currencies in their reserves; but the currency that they hold most of (in most cases currently, the USD), is considered the "Reserve" or "Anchor" Currency.

Having your country's currency used as the World's "Reserve" currency provides you with a great economic advantage. Every time another country buys your currency - as it must, to purchase oil and other commodities - they must pay a transaction cost, as well as bear the cost of the exchange rate difference between your and their currency.

The advantage for the country issuing the "Reserve Currency", is of course that it does not have to pay the transaction fees or deal with the fluctuating exchange rates. It also allows that country to borrow money at a cheaper rate, because there will always be a better market for that currency.

And because it is easier for the issuer of the "Reserve Currency" to borrow money; it is easier for that country to run a higher trade deficit - the repayment of which can be postponed because of cheaper interest rates.

However, having your currency swirling around the World's Foreign Exchanges creates a ticking time-bomb that will explode the instant your currency ceases to be the World's "Reserve Currency".

I've explained the nature of this "Bomb" before on =PBF=, but I guess it won't hurt to reiterate it..! ;)

When you issue currency that is bought and then held in Foreign Exchange Reserves, it is just like writing a cheque (check) that is never cashed.

Let's say that I buy something from you, and I write a cheque out for $100. You are then holding that $100 check; and I am holding/using/consuming whatever it is that I bought from you. Now you could immediately present that $100 cheque at my Central Bank, where you could exchange it for say, $100 worth of your own currency. However, you might prefer to hold on to that check, and not cash it straightaway, and there are a couple of main reasons why you may choose to do this.

The first is simply that your own currency may be more volatile than mine; and if you give it a month or so, you might be able to exchange that $100 cheque for more of your own currency, than if you did it straightaway. The other reason why you might hold onto that check, is because I have written other cheques out to other people, who also have chosen not to cash it straightaway.

This allows you the facility to "spend" my check with someone else. Say I've written a cheque out for $50 to someone else, and you buy $50 worth of goods or services from them: they can give you their goods or service, and their $50 check, in exchange for your $100 cheque.

And the good news for me is that whilst you lot are all busy exchanging the checks I have written out amongst yourselves, you will never present them to my Central Bank for redemption/encashment.

The U.S. Dollar is essentially a "personal" check from the U.S. Government.

And here we have our first headline figure.

The amount of U.S. Dollars currently swilling around Foreign Reserves (as of this summer, 2007) is..:

[b]US$6.5 trillion[/b]

That is essentially, $6.5 trillion of "un-cashed" U.S. Government "checks" swilling around the World Economies.

What has already begun to happen though, is that these "checks" are beginning to be "cashed" by the World; and guess what? The United States is seriously struggling to honour these "checks".

And the reason why so many of these Dollar "checks" are being presented for honouring at the U.S. Central Bank, is simply that the World has lost confidence in the U.S. Government to guarantee their value. In short, US Dollar holders are starting to rush to cash-in their U.S. Dollar reserves, before they become worth less than they already are.

There are several reasons why the World is losing confidence in the U.S. Government's guarantee or [i]fiat[/i], and they are nearly all to do with the policies and actions of the Bush Administration.

Just one of the principal reasons why this is happening, is because of the so-called "Sub-Prime" meltdown in the American mortgage market; which is essentially, because of the puncturing and collapse of the U.S. Housing Market "Bubble".

The U.S. Government is basically caught in a dilemma of its own making: if it increases interest rates to protect the value of the U.S. Dollar, it will accelerate and exacerbate the domestic social problems created by the supply of (essentially) "Free Money", facilitated by lowering interest rates to 1% in the earlier part of this decade; and if it doesn't increase interest rates - or is forced to continue lowering them - it will accelerate the decline of the U.S. Dollar's value on Foreign Exchanges, and hasten its demise as the World's Reserve Currency.

But that isn't the only reason why the World has lost confidence in the U.S. Government and its currency.

Whilst the U.S. has a World-leading gross domestic product (GDP) of some $11 trillion; it also has an equally world-beating public debt of $9 trillion.

Now if you owed more than 80% of your annual income in debt, you would be considered insolvent by all ordinary standards; and this is, indeed, the situation the United States is now considered to be in, by the Rest of the World.

And the final nail in the coffin, is calculated and expressed by the figure that combines all current U.S. Government commitments, both internal and external. This is the figure that totals all creditors holding U.S. debt instruments; intra-government debt obligations; and most painfully, the unfunded Social Security, Medicaid and other promises that the current and future U.S. Governments must fulfil as a basic requirement of their function.

And this figure is... Wait for it..:

[b][color=red]US$59.1 TRILLION[/color][/b]

http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2007-05-28-federal-budget_N.htm?csp=34

In short, the U.S. is economically bust.

Now the ill-informed opinion is that the U.S. Economy can weather the gathering storm, just as it has weathered financial storms in the past. But this opinion ignores (or perhaps doesn't understand) the significance of the U.S. Dollar's role as the World's Reserve Currency.

The U.S. Dollar was [b]*NOT*[/b] the World's Reserve Currency during the Wall Street Crash and Great Depression of the pre-War era. Prior to the end of World War Two, the U.S. Economy was not the foremost Economy of the World; and the U.S. Dollar was not the foremost Currency.

I said at the beginning of this post that whilst the situation the U.S. Economy is in now is unique in [b]*ITS*[/b] History: this is because the U.S. Dollar has never been in danger of losing its role as the World's Reserve Currency.

Obviously before World War Two, the U.S. Dollar couldn't lose that role, because it didn't occupy it; but even during the economic crises of the 1970's, the USD's role as Reserve Currency was not threatened, simply because there was no alternative to the USD for that role.

But now, in the 21st Century, there are at least two currencies that are capable of assuming that role - and indeed have already begun to assume that role: the Euro; and the Chinese Yuan (Renminbi).

Now I also said that whilst this is a unique (novel) situation for the U.S. Economy; it is not unique or new to the History of World Economics. This because there is a clear precedent for what is now happening to the U.S. Economy; and that is what happened to the Economy of the British Empire.

In the 18th and 19th Century, the British Pound Sterling occupied precisely the same position in the World Economy as the U.S. Dollar currently does: it was the World's Reserve Currency, and functioned in the same way as the USD does today. But following an almost identical collapse in the confidence and respect for the Government of the British Empire that has now occurred for the U.S. Government, the same thing happened to the British Economy and Currency, as is now happening to the Economy and Currency of the United States.

However, when the Economy of the British Empire collapsed, its currency was still backed by the Gold Standard. This mitigated the worst effects of the British Pound's loss of status as the World's Reserve Currency; allowing the currency and economy of the U.K. to partially recover its status, and retain a more limited role as a reserve currency in Foreign Exchanges.

The problem that the U.S. Economy now faces that [b]*IS*[/b] unique in the History of Capitalist Economics; is that the U.S. Dollar is a [i]Fiat[/i] Currency: it is not backed by anything more substantial than belief and confidence in the U.S. Government; belief and confidence that has been utterly devastated by the tenure of the Bush Administration.

Simply, to avoid the worst and most catastrophic effects of the collapse of the U.S. Dollar, and the loss of its role as the World's Reserve Currency, the United States must rely on the respect and favour of other World Governments and National Societies, to minimise the most debilitating effects of this fundamental paradigm shift.

Unfortunately...

Well... You can probably fill in that blank.

Anyhoo, that's nearly 3,000 words of Macro-economics, and there's a good chance you haven't made it all the way through Sucky; so I'll leave it at that for now. Of course there is so much more to it than the mere tip of the iceberg I've detailed above; but I'm sure if you've any supplemental questions, you won't hesitate to pose them. :)

Peace