[quote=SomeGuy[PCNC]][quote=Holyman_2012]The U.S. has been deliberately (as far as I, and many, many others can tell) bankrupted by the Bush Administration; and if that situation is left unaddressed until the Bush Administration leaves office: it will be the end of the American Dream as Everyone knows it.[/quote]

Show your source or get over yourself.[/quote]

On the basis that others might ask that same question, I'll answer it SomeTwat. But you should understand that in the normal course of affairs, I wouldn't stop to piss on you, if you were on fire.

Simply:

The Bush Administration's tax-cut enacted polcies, beginning in 2001, have begun to transfer and will have transferred more than $4 trillion dollars of tax-payer revenues, from the Federal Government to, primarily, the top 1% of earners in the United States.

The Iraq War has already accounted for more than $1 trillion in out-of-pocket and already incurred expenses, with the vast majority of that expenditure going to Vice-President Dick Cheney's former company Halliburton and its subsidiaries; and to other Defence-Industry recipients that are primary donors to Republican Party candidates.

The current, on-going and accelerating devaluation of the U.S. Dollar has been precipitated primarily by the collateralising of mortgage debt obligations. Millions of middle-class Americans are now moving into the negative equity trap. The Wall Street traders and bankers that organised and touted these CDO and SIV packages, have all grown fat on the fees they generated, and will not suffer at all with the Housing Crash.

The Housing Bubble was faciliated by artificially low interest rates, created by Alan Greenspan, the former Chairman of the Federal Reserve. Only a fool would not have been able to predict that interest rates at 1% would create a Commodity Bubble in the Housing Sector. And Alan Greenspan is no idiot: just a major white-collar criminal.

In short: the Bush Administration's economic policies of the last seven years, have inevitably hollowed out the U.S. Economy. This is the predictable and guaranteed effect of those policies.

Either the Bush Administration is guilty of gross incompetence, or felonious criminality. In neither case should the Bush Administration be able to escape responsibility for their actions in regard to the U.S. Economy.

I don't expect you to understand or comprehend any of this SomeTwat: you are the epitome of the kind of American citizen whose arrogance and ignorance has allowed this situation to develop.

Good luck!

Peace