In Reply To #67

In Reply To #66

So, uh, WHY did the Bush Administration try to get explicit authorisation from the UNSC for the Invasion of Iraq?

If the UN was against taking action of Iraq, uh, WHY did the UNSC pass UN resolutions: 661, 678, 686, 687, 688, 707, 715, 986, and 1441?

You're not even attempting to answer my question.

Why is that?

Was the Bush Administration successful in that attempt?

Was Bush sucessful in his attempt to get the UNSC to give Saddam "one final chance?"  Yup; 1441.

You're not answering my question.

Why is that?

If 1441 was all that was necessary, why did the Bush Administration attempt (and fail) to get another Resolution explicitly authorising the Invasion of Iraq?

Did it go ahead and invade Iraq anyway?

According to the Charter of the United Nations, that was the next action on the list.  You might have noticed that had you read what I had given you earlier.

According to the Charter of the United Nations, the United States could only invade Iraq with the explicit authorisation of the UNSC.

Did the Bush Administration try to get that explicit authorisation?

Yes.

Did the Bush Administration get that explicit authorisation?

No.

Did the Bush Administration invade Iraq without the explicit authorisation of the UNSC?

Yes.

Did the Bush Administration breach the UN Charter when it invaded Iraq without the explicit authorisation of the UNSC?

Yes.

If that is what previous UNSC resolutions had "categorically" stated, WHY did the Bush Administration return to the UN and try desperately to get another resolution to authorise its Invasion of Iraq?

What, excatly, does "one final chance?"

You're not answering the question I asked.

Why is that?

Why was the Invasion of Iraq carried out under the auspices of the "Coalition of the Willing", rather than the United Nations, as was the action to repulse Iraq's Invasion of Kuwait?

Resolution 1441;  try reading it boyo.

You're not answering the question I asked.

Why is that?

If Saddam Hussein was in "material breach" of the cease-fire set at the end of Gulf War I, in 2003, he must have been in breach of that same cease-fire agreement throughout the 1990's, and indeed, from the moment that cease-fire agreement was implemented?

Ask the UNSC; they are the ones who wrote that Saddam was in material breach of the Cease-Fire and gave him "one more chance."

I'm asking you EvilFitch - you claim to be an authority on these matters; and no representative of the UNSC is currently a member of this Community.

You're not answering the question I asked.

Why is that?

Why did George Bush the First not invade Iraq?

He wanted to avoid nation building which is why he offered the Cease-Fire to begin with.  This is recorded history.

Yay! You answered a question at last!

Shame you answered incorrectly.

"Whose life would be on my hands as the commander-in-chief because I, unilaterally, went beyond the international law, went beyond the stated mission, and said we're going to show our macho?" he asked. "We're going into Baghdad. We're going to be an occupying power -- America in an Arab land -- with no allies at our side. It would have been disastrous."

Source: http://www.fas.org/news/iraq/1999/03/a19990303bush.htm

Why did Bill Clinton not invade Iraq?

Ask him; it was his Administration's policy for regime change in Iraq.  This is recorded histroy.

Ooop - back to avoiding answering the question: and here was me thinking you knew the Absolute Truth About Everything.

If Why did George Bush the Second wait until 2003 to invade Iraq?

Ask him boyo; by law, George H. Bush had all the legal authority in the world to invade Iraq following Saddam's breach of the cease fire (which came almost immediately after it was put in place).

I just DID "ask" George H. Bush (see above).

He said that invading Iraq unilaterally (i.e. without explicit UNSC authorisation), would have gone "...beyond the International Law, ...beyond the stated mission".

And of course, why did the UNSC not explicitly authorise the 2003 Invasion; AND explicitly denounce the 2003 Invasion as illegal?

UN SC R 1441:  Read it.  Simply sticking your head up your ass and your ass in the sand while asking questions already answered does not help you boyo.

Again: you're back to not answering the question I asked.

Why is that EvilFitch?

So EvilFitch...

Are you saying that the United Nations Treaty - created, authored and promoted by the United States of America, following World War Two - is UNCONSTITUTIONAL, and is subsequently a VOID Treaty, despite not having been overturned by or even challenged at SCOTUS?

Did I say that?  Is that in the text you quoted?  No, it is not in the text nor have I said it thus far.  I suggest you open your eyes and read what is written before posting.

A simple "No" would have sufficed.

I was asking you if you were saying the United Nations Treaty was unconstitutional and therefore NOT part of US Law.

You've just answered (yay!) that no, the UN Treaty is NOT unconstitutional, and is therefore a part of the "Supreme Law of the Land" (of the United States).

Which makes me wonder why you took us on such a torpid trip down the "What-Treaties-Constitute-US-Law" path...

That's got to be one of the biggest fuck-ups in Diplomatic History, hasn't it?

I would agree that the creation of the United Nations is the biggest fuck-up in Diplomatic History.  An orginization that was created to prevent and end war has done NOTHING but aid in the dictator's ability to wage war throughout the wourld these last 60 years.

Didn't the United Nations create the modern State of Israel?

I can think of many Israelis today who wouldn't call that "NOTHING".

And if the United Nations is a "fuck-up", surely that is the responsibility of the Nation that created it: the United States of America. And surely, if the US' aim is to create a World of representative and pluralistic democracies, as the "World's Only Superpower", it should take the responsible lead in creating a replacement for the UN, as currently constituted.

I'd ask you why the US doesn't do that, but I suspect you won't answer.

(You'll probably mention UNSC Resolution 1441 again...)

Or, are you NOT saying that the UN Charter is a void treaty because it is UNCONSTITUTIONAL?

First:  the UN Charter is not the treaty the Senate would have ratified to become a member of the UN so you are WRONG here.

Second:  I have not said in this thread that the UN charter conflcits or contradicts with the US Constitution.  So YOU ARE WRONG HERE AGAIN.

Thirdly:  Learn to read.  This is embarrasing that person of your supposed intellect is so fucking stupid.  I mean, really, there are kids around here who know better than to MAKE AN ASSUMPTION and then pass that assumption off as if it is stated fact.

So, uh, why have we wasted so many pages discussing (and hopelessly confusing 'Slacks... ;-)) whether International Treaty obligations constitute the "Supreme Law of the Land" in the United States?

All those years ago, when this thread was but young, I mentioned that the Bush Administration was in breach of US Law, because it had violated the UN Charter.

Cue: you banging on for an aeon, about whether or not International Treaties are or are not the "Supreme Law of the Land", as mandated by the US Constitution.

Still, at least we're here now. We can return the conversation to whether or not the Bush Administration broke the UN Charter, by invading Iraq without the specific authorisation of the UNSC.

Kofi Annan seems to think so... Oh, but he's corrupt, isn't he, so he doesn't count.

Alright: Ex-President George H.W. Bush says it was against International Law; as does just about anyone outside of the legal defence teams of the Bush, Blair and Howard Administrations.

There's only really two questions you've got to answer EvilFitch:

Did the Bush Administration have explicit authorisation from the United Nations Security Council to invade Iraq in 2003?

Since I already know the answer to that is No; I might as well roll on to the next question:

By breaching the UN Charter by invading Iraq without the explicit authorisation of the UNSC, is the Bush Administration guilty of breaking the "Supreme Law" of the United States?

And since you've just explicitly acknowledged that the UN Charter is part of the "Supreme Law" of the United States, the answer to THAT question, has to be...

Yes.

Thank you, that was the only point I was trying to make... All those years ago. :)

Peace