In Reply To #48

Taken from the United Nations Charter:

CHAPTER VI:

Article 41

The Security Council may decide what measures not involving the use of armed force are to be employed to give effect to its decisions, and it may call upon the Members of the United Nations to apply such measures.

These may include complete or partial interruption of economic relations and of rail, sea, air, postal, telegraphic, radio, and other means of communication, and the severance of diplomatic relations.

Article 42

Should the Security Council consider that measures provided for in Article 41 would be inadequate or have proved to be inadequate, it may take such action by air, sea, or land forces as may be necessary to maintain or restore international peace and security. Such action may include demonstrations, blockade, and other operations by air, sea, or land forces of Members of the United Nations.

Scan...scan...scan...scan...

Nope, nothing in there about any individual member nation being able to use unilateral military force at its own discretion...

Seems quite clear to me that it is saying that no military action is permissible without the explicit authorisation of the Security Council...

But you know EvilFitch, what I find most incredible about this current bout of your revisionism, is that you're asking me to forget what took place not four years ago.

I mean, normally your revisionism covers History that took place before any of us were born; but you're now trying to revise something that happened four years ago.

FACT: the United Nations Security Council explicitly authorised the use of military force against Afghanistan.

FACT: the United Nations Security Council most definitely did NOT explicitly authorise the use of military force against Iraq.

FACT: following the US' unilateral use of force in the Invasion of Iraq, the then Secretary General of the United Nations explicitly stated that the US Invasion was illegal, and contrary to the United Nations Charter.

You're asking me to forget how four years ago, the Bush Administration made Colin Powell jump through hoops at the United Nations, destroying his otherwise unblemished international reputation as a Statesman, and all to no avail.

FACT: the Bush Administration tried everything it could to get UNSC approval for military action against Iraq, and it failed.

FACT: this was blamed by the Bush Administration on the French, Russian and Chinese use of their veto power on the UNSC.

http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/iraq/2003-03-17-france-iraq_x.htm

FACT: the Bush Administration followed the refusal of the UNSC to give its Invasion of Iraq diplomatic cover, by launching a propaganda campaign against France.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freedom_fries

Questions EvilFitch (you like answering these :)):

Why DID the Bush Administration try to get UNSC approval for its Invasion of Iraq?

DID the Bush Administration get UNSC approval for its Invasion of Iraq?

DID the Bush Administration go ahead and invade Iraq without UNSC approval?

DID Secretary-General Kofi Annan call the US Invasion of Iraq illegal?

WAS the US Invasion of Iraq contrary to the United Nations Charter?

WAS the Bush Administration's breach of the United Nations Charter, also a breach of US Constitutional Law?

DOES the US Constitution now mandate that the President MUST be impeached?

Peace