In Reply To #93

You could simply answer the question I asked.  It is a rather simple question (hell, I answered it myself not long ago but you didn't read that part).

It MUST have been simple then. :) (Sorry, couldn't resist...)

Why have you ignored my question?  Can you not answer my question? The problem is that I have asked you a simple question and you have not yet provided an answer.  There is no "game" to "win" here but only questions to answer or ignore.  Thus far, you have chosen the latter whilst I prefer the former. You could simply answer the question I asked.  It is a rather simple question (hell, I answered it myself not long ago but you didn't read that part). Why have you ignored my question?  Can you not answer my question? Consider yourself luck I address anything past the question you have yet to answer.  I am fast approaching the point where I will simply respond to what you have written with no more than my questiion until you have answered. You could simply answer the question I asked.  It is a rather simple question (hell, I answered it myself not long ago but you didn't read that part). Why have you ignored my question?  Can you not answer my question? You might have some standing to make such a comment had you answered my question.  Instead, it appears as if you are mearly dodging the question I have asked. You could simply answer the question I asked.  It is a rather simple question (hell, I answered it myself not long ago but you didn't read that part). Why have you ignored my question?  Can you not answer my question? So what explination exists for your lack of answering the question of you no fewer than ten times thus far? You could simply answer the question I asked.  It is a rather simple question (hell, I answered it myself not long ago but you didn't read that part). Why have you ignored my question?  Can you not answer my question?

...Right then: what do I think "One Final Chance" means?

I think it means:

One last chance to do what you are told, or... (Wait for it...)

...

SOMETHING ELSE will happen.

Ta-da!

You have not answered the question.  The "something else" is quite specific; thus the "FINAL OPPORTUNITY"  and the question is not answered with out satisfying this part of the matter. You could simply answer the question I asked.  It is a rather simple question (hell, I answered it myself not long ago but you didn't read that part). Why have you ignored my question?  Can you not answer my question? I re-post R. 1441 because you continue to IGNORE the Resolution and more specifically the pieces I have highlighted and produced before you.  Had you sufficiently answered the questions levied against you or made statments that did not contradcit R. 1441 I would not feel compelled to continue posting the Resolution in its entirity. Again, I have asked a question and you have failed to answer.  You could simply answer the question I asked.  It is a rather simple question (hell, I answered it myself not long ago but you didn't read that part). Why have you ignored my question?  Can you not answer my question?

Starting to sound a bit manic now, aren't you EvilFitch.

Is it because you are reaching the point where even YOU can no longer deny that your, uh, "position" is shallow, pedantic, vacuous, specious, and of course, wholly incorrect?

I mean, I'm well aware that *MY* reading of UNSC Resolution 1441, and my recollection of the Bush Administration's reaction at the time of its passing, are both wholly correct. *AND* I'm well aware that everyone else still reading this thread - including even SomeMoron (how-about-dat?) - remembers clearly that the United Nations Security Council would not and did not authorise anything with any more teeth at the time.

Hell, if *FOOTA* was in on this thread, even HE would just dismiss the United Nations Security Council as an irrelevant and corrupt body, dominated by, uh, "Totalitarians" (he said it! Not me! Though I don't think he means the United States... ;-)); and its failure to authorise US action against Iraq, was just another nail in the coffin of "UN Legitimacy".

Anyhoo, despite my rather eloquent answer (if I do say so myself :)) in my previous post, to your, uh, "question"; you seemed determined to try and just deny outright that I've even answered it.

Why is that EvilFitch?

A couple of posts back, I asked you "What was the question again?" - the one you say I'm not answering or trying to answer.

And you wrote:

In Reply To #79

What, excatly, does "one final chance?" What exactly do you think "ONE LAST CHANCE" means? I have already posted the text. Just what the hell do you think "One final chance" means?! What, exactly, does "last chance" mean to you boyo?

And I wrote:

In Reply To #82

From what I read when 1441 was first produced - and I haven't noticed any changes in it no matter how many times you re-post it - I don't recall - and can't see - anything in it stating that failure to comply with it will result in the United States and its allies immediately invading Iraq and ousting Saddam Hussein's Government.

I mean, I can see:

12. Decides to convene immediately upon receipt of a report in accordance with paragraphs 4 or 11 above, in order to consider the situation and the need for full compliance with all of the relevant Council resolutions in order to secure international peace and security;

...Which seems to say that Iraq's failure to comply with this Resolution will result in... A Meeting!

And I mean, alright, meetings can be difficult, and I guess a meeting of all the World's leaders - or just those on the Security Council - would be REAL tedious; but it's not quite the same as: "Your country will immediately be invaded by foreign troops."

Then there is:

13. Recalls, in that context, that the Council has repeatedly warned Iraq that it will face serious consequences as a result of its continued violations of its obligations;

...Which just seems to, uh, "Recall" that Iraq has been warned by the Security Council that it will face "serious consequences" - but with no explicit definition of what those "serious consequences" might entail.

And:

14. Decides to remain seized of the matter

...Which as I'm sure you know, is the UN Security Council's way of saying to the General Assembly, and all member nations' governments:

"Hands off! WE are dealing with this!"

So, you know, the reason I've not been delving into 1441 EvilFitch, is because I really didn't want to embarrass you.

There is NOTHING in 1441 that authorises ANYONE to use military force, EVEN IF Iraq is found to be in breach of the Resolution.

But... Apparently... That wasn't clear enough for you; because your response to the above was to write:

In Reply To #86

As usual, I asked a specific question and, in response, you have given me BULL SHIT with NO ANSWER. Why don't you answer the question?  Hell, you asked me to clerifiy my question and yet you HAVE NOT ANSWERED THE QUESTION! Is it that you CANNOT answer the question or is it rather that you WILL NOT answer the simple question I have asked?

And of course, I read that, scratching my head a little, and thinking to myself: blimey! Old Fitchie is really starting to lose the plot now. I mean, I realise he might not want to accept the answer I've given him, so might try and pretend that my answer doesn't exist; but SURELY he must realise that anyone and everyone else reading this can see that I HAVE answered his question, and can only put his blanket denial down to a chronic inability to ever back down or let anything go.

(I mean, sure, they probably also realise that *I* never back down or let anything go; but most also realise that is because I'm NEVER in the wrong. :))

Anyway, I also thought to myself: well, it's all well and good everyone else realising that *I* am clearly talking sense, and YOU are just trying to barricade yourself behind a wall of blather, nonsense and denial; but it is EvilFitch *I* am trying to get through to. And if a person is saying or claiming that they can't or won't understand what I'm saying or have said; then surely I must accept the responsibility for my own failure to communicate in a way that they can understand, and take appropriate steps to communicate with more clarity.

(You know, as opposed to just hurling insults at that person and claiming that their inability to understand what *I* am saying must be THEIR fault. ;-))

So, being the responsible Holyman I am, I responded:

In Reply To #88

Right then: what do I think "One Final Chance" means?

I think it means:

One last chance to do what you are told, or... (Wait for it...)

...

SOMETHING ELSE will happen.

Ta-da!

Now, YOU are the one that keeps re-posting Resolution 1441; and YOU are the one who keeps criticising ME for my reading comprehension skills, or lack thereof.

But surely, if you have examined Resolution 1441 as thoroughly as you claim (and as thoroughly as you assume I haven't), then it would be clear to you that what would happen if Saddam failed to comply (and his non-compliance was reported back to the UNSC by UNMOVIC and the IAEA, as explicitly detailed in the Resolution), is that the Security Council would:

(And I'm quoting here:)

12. [Decide] to convene immediately upon receipt of a report in accordance with paragraphs 4 or 11 above, in order to consider the situation and the need for full compliance with all of the relevant Council resolutions in order to secure international peace and security;

So I'm sorry EvilFitch, but I'm afraid "A Meeting" is *ALL* that UNSC Resolution 1441 promises, IF Saddam was reported - by UNMOVIC and the IAEA - back to the UNSC as being not in compliance.

You may not like that, you may disagree with it, you may think it absurd: but it IS what your UNSC Resolution 1441 CATEGORICALLY STATES.

To answer your question then, as explicitly as I know how:

UN Resolution 1441 gave Saddam Hussein a "Final Chance" to give the UNMOVIC and IAEA inspectors full co-operation with their inspections;

And IF he failed to take advantage of that "Final Chance", THEN THE UNSC WOULD CONVENE AGAIN TO CONSIDER WHAT TO DO NEXT.

...Which I thought was pretty emphatic; but clearly not emphatic enough to overcome YOUR psycho-pathology.

Perhaps you could help me out here, and just explain in patient and simple detail, how the above does NOT answer your, uh, "Question".

I mean, I can hardly answer a question to your satisfaction, if you don't help me out a little by telling me what WILL satisfy you.

But surely, if you have examined Resolution 1441 as thoroughly as you claim (and as thoroughly as you assume I haven't), then it would be clear to you that what would happen if Saddam failed to comply (and his non-compliance was reported back to the UNSC by UNMOVIC and the IAEA, as explicitly detailed in the Resolution), is that the Security Council would:

(And I'm quoting here:)...

12. [Decide] to convene immediately upon receipt of a report in accordance with paragraphs 4 or 11 above, in order to consider the situation and the need for full compliance with all of the relevant Council resolutions in order to secure international peace and security;

Wrong;  that is not the action taken by the United Nations but an examination regarding Saddam's status regarding R.1441.

No, the examination would take place according to paragraphs 4 and 11 (as mentioned above); paragraph 12 (above) *EXPLICITLY* states that non-compliance would result in the UNSC convening again to "consider the situation", and decide upon the next course of action.

Are you really so stupid as to imply that a "MEETING" will be the "dire consequences" as described in R. 1441 as produced by the United Nations following Saddam's failure to comply with UN resolutions?

See, I said you might not like it.

The Bush Administration certainly didn't.

But I'm afraid that yes, another meeting (of the United Nations Security Council, to "consider the situation" and what to do next, in light of the "need for full compliance with all of the relevant Council resolutions in order to secure international peace and security") is the ONLY explicit consequence of Saddam's failure to comply with Resolution 1441.

That was kind of the only reason why countries like Russia, China, France and Syria passed the Resolution. Because it wasn't a "Green Light" for the US to invade Iraq whenever it decided to; but was rather an "Orange Light" that would see the matter return to the UNSC for further consideration.

That meeting is an assessment of Saddam's actions and NOT THE ACTION threatened by the Resolution.

No.

This is another dogde and constitutes a failure to answer the question I have asked.

Well, you're REALLY going to have to help me out here then.

At first, you kept labouring the point that you believed (assumed/concluded/whatever) that I hadn't read Resolution 1441.

I then READ IT OUT FOR YOU, and explained how (as Everyone else recalls) it did not provide for the automatic Invasion of Iraq by non-UN-badged forces. And all you seem to be able to do now, is try to keep maintaining that I haven't answered the question.

Why do you think that is EvilFitch?

A "final opportunity" by its very defintion supposes action that will preclude the existance of another opportunity.  In other words,  one of two things happen.  Either Saddam complies or he does not comply.

Look at it in context, maybe that will help.

The United States and the United Kingdom did NOT want to give Saddam Hussein any more chances - remember all those debates? When they went to the UNSC in 2002, they went for authorisation to immediately invade Iraq.

Instead, what they got - and all the UNSC would give them - was a Resolution that offered Saddam one more chance to get his act together.

And IF Saddam did not avail himself of that "Final Chance"; then - as explicitly stated in Paragraph 12 of UNSC Resolution 1441 - the United Nations Security Council would convene to discuss how to deal with his non-compliance, without Saddam having any more chances or opportunities to comply.

As for reading comprehension, read the red boyo:

12. [Decide] to convene immediately upon receipt of a report in accordance with paragraphs 4 or 11 above, in order to consider the situation and the need for full compliance with all of the relevant Council resolutions in order to secure international peace and security;

Why did you clip off the "...in order to consider the situation and..." bit?

I mean, it's difficult to comprehend something, if you only read half a sentence. The "...in order to consider the situation and..." kind of has a big impact on what's being stated, don't you think?

Is that why you're trying to ignore it?

... So I'm sorry EvilFitch, but I'm afraid "A Meeting" is *ALL* that UNSC Resolution 1441 promises, IF Saddam was reported - by UNMOVIC and the IAEA - back to the UNSC as being not in compliance.

Wrong again.  The meeting is a precursor to the action promised in the Resolution.

Look, while you're writing up some coaching guidelines for me, on how to answer the question you keep asking to your satisfaction; why don't you try answering this question:

WHAT action is promised in UNSC Resolution 1441?

Recalls, in that context, that the Council has repeatedly warned Iraq that it will face serious consequences as a result of its continued violations of its obligations;

Did the UNSC just threaten Saddam with a MEETING and call it the "serious consequences" that are brought about "as a result of its continued violations of its obligations?"

Now, they did not.

Again, you're kind of chopping all the wrong bits out of a complete sentence.

The clause you quoted above is simply RECALLING that the UNSC has repeatedly warned Iraq that it will face serious consequences.

There isn't a single word in UNSC Resolution 1441 that describes any other consequences than a further meeting to discuss what those "serious consequences" might or will be.

You may not like that, you may disagree with it, you may think it absurd: but it IS what your UNSC Resolution 1441 CATEGORICALLY STATES.

No, it does not.

Once again, simply saying something is true does not make it so!

Well, at the risk of sounding childish...

Your simply saying that something does NOT say what it CLEARLY DOES SAY, does not make it NOT say it.

Peace