In Reply To #181

In Reply To #180

In Reply To #179

Seeing as the whole 'serious consequences' and 'last chance' thing has been done to death, is there any other legal arguments for the legality of the war in Iraq? Or does the legality hinge around those points alone?

My understanding is that it pretty much does hinge upon those points, I could be wrong though. You could make the argument that the American people were misled about the war and that the military was misused as the conflict was unncessary. However, I don't really know if that would be enough to build a case on a legal basis.

It is pretty clear cut on a diplomatic and legal basis.

Regardless of the Brownshirts' feelings about Kofi Annan and his proprieties, the former Secretary General was only able to make the statement he did about the Invasion of Iraq, because he was ABSOLUTELY certain of his position.

Think about diplomacy, and just HOW CAREFULLY diplomatic agreements and treaties are worded. It filters down to our lives in the contracts and legal documents that WE have to sign.

There can be no ambiguities or careless phrases in a diplomatic document, such things can lead to Wars.

Equally, if Secretary General Annan did not have a clear diplomatic and legal basis for declaring the Invasion of Iraq illegal, that fact would have been used mercilessly by the Bush Administration, to at least demand his resignation for uttering such an outrage, if not abolish the entire and pesky structure of the United Nations altogether.

Instead, a diversionary tactic was brought up in response: the so-called "Oil-for-Food" programme.

When someone accused of a crime responds not by defending the unjustness of the accusation, but by attacking the accuser, that is usually prima facie evidence of guilt.

If Secretary General's announcement that the US Invasion of Iraq was illegal was incorrect, the announcement would constitute the most egregious of diplomatic slanders; and one that the anti-UN Bush Administration would have leapt upon with glee.

But of course, the representative head of, the Assembly that Represents All Human Beings, spoke only in representation of the objective interpretation of the UN Charter and Statutes. If he had made his statement without the full diplomatic support of the General Assembly he was speaking for, he would of course ALSO have had to resign his position.

But he wasn't, so he didn't have to.

The only "Legal" opposition to the US & UK's interpretation of the UN Charter, and the various Resolutions against Iraq, came from the legal defence teams of the Bush and Blair Administration.

And at least in the case of Blair's Attorney General, Lord Goldsmith, his "defence" of Blair's "interpretation" of International Law, has led to his becoming the laughing stock of the legal profession; an ignoble end to an otherwise unblemished career.

So whilst "Legal Eagles", amateur and professional alike, may try to argue the case for Preventive War (the "Supreme War Crime, from which all other War Crimes flow", as declared by the American-led Nuremburg Commission)...

They may only do so if they don't object to being seen as complete idiots. :)

Peace