In Reply To #69

In Reply To #68

You're not even attempting to answer my question.

Why is that?

Because it is irrelevent.  Did you not read the UNSC resolutions: 661, 678, 686, 687, 688, 707, 715, 986, and 1441?

Read them.

Because it is irrelevent.  Did you not read the UNSC resolutions: 661, 678, 686, 687, 688, 707, 715, 986, and 1441?

Read them.

If 1441 was all that was necessary, why did the Bush Administration attempt (and fail) to get another Resolution explicitly authorising the Invasion of Iraq?

Thank you for proving that you have not read UNSCR 1441.

Read it.

UNSC resolution 1441:  Read it.

UNSC resolution 1441:  Read it.

UNSC resolution 1441:  Read it.

UNSC resolution 1441:  Read it.

UNSC resolution 1441:  Read it.

You're not answering the question I asked.

Why is that?

I have already answered your question.  You are not answering the questions I have asked nor are you even addressing the multitude of UNSC resolutions I have presented.  Why is that?

Heh-heh, that's pretty feeble, even for you EvilFitch... :)

Look, here's how you answer a question:

The reason I am not addressing the multitude of UNSC Resolutions you keep banging on about is simple.

The Bush Administration went back to the UN Security Council to secure ANOTHER Resolution that would explicitly authorise the Invasion of Iraq.

It went back to the UNSC AFTER Resolution 1441 had already been passed.

Clearly, the reason why the Bush Administration went back to the UNSC, was because Resolution 1441 was not sufficiently explicit to justify the use of force.

If Resolution 1441 had been sufficiently explicit, why go back to the UN and make Colin Powell jump through hoops?

The reason I am discarding all previous resolutions up to and including 1441, is because the Bush Administration demonstrated by its return to the UNSC for a further Resolution (which it didn't get), that it knew that Resolution 1441 wasn't sufficiently explicit to justify the Invasion of Iraq.

And if the Bush Administration didn't feel that Resolution 1441 was sufficient, why should I?

All of which leads up to the most pertinent question I keep asking, and which you keep failing to answer:

Why did the Bush Administration go to the UNSC for a Resolution to explicitly authorise the Invasion of Iraq, if it already had that explicit authority?

I was asking you if you were saying the United Nations Treaty was unconstitutional and therefore NOT part of US Law.

Now you are lying.

No, honestly: I AM asking you if you were saying the UN Treaty was unconstitutional and therefore NOT part of US Law.

Honest Guv'.

You've just answered (yay!) that no, the UN Treaty is NOT unconstitutional, and is therefore a part of the "Supreme Law of the Land" (of the United States).

Did I say that?  No, I did not.  I simply said that I HAVE NOT SAID that the UN treaty is unconstitutional.  Try reading.

Well, with sequences like the above, you don't make reading very easy.

I say that you've just answered that the UN Treaty is NOT unconstitutional, and you say...

"I HAVE NOT SAID that the UN treaty is unconstitutional."

You can see the difficulty I'm having, can't you?

Which makes me wonder why you took us on such a torpid trip down the "What-Treaties-Constitute-US-Law" path...

Another lie.  You were the dullard who treid to take this thread down a rabbit hole by making the FALSE statment that treaties are the SUPREME LAW of the United States of America.

Hmmm... Touch of dementia setting in?

I remember those far off, innocent days of Page 1... Ah, happy times.

I wrote:

In Reply To #12

Tell you what, here's another example for you both to worry at.

The US Constitution mandates that any International Treaty entered into by the United States Government, becomes the "Supreme Law of the Land".

By invading Iraq, the Bush Administration broke the UN Charter, and therefore, US Constitutional Law.

And that's just one of many examples.

You responded:

In Reply To #14

Actually, the US Constitution IS THE ONLY "Supreme Law of the Land."  Period.

Now you are right when you say that once a President has signed a treaty and the Senate ratifies the treaty, said treaty becomes law.

However, that treaty cannot replace or dissolve the Constitution because, according to the Constitution, the Constitution is the ULTIMATE AUTHORITY.

For example, say the Senate ratifies a treaty that states that no citizen is allowed due process.  This does not over-write the U.S. Constitution.

So:

LIAR, LIAR, your PANTS are on FIRE! :)

Peace