In Reply To #61

In Reply To #55

In Reply To #54

So, uh, you DO want me to forget that the Bush Administration tried desperately to get a UNSC Resolution to authorise the Invasion of Iraq..?

So, uh, you DO want to ignore the fact that the United Nations found Saddam's Iraq in material breach of the Cease Fire that ended the Gulf War and subsequent UN resolutions and, despite the fact that UNR 1441 authorizes Military Action, as is the last remaining act on part of the United Nations in the case of the UN v Iraq as mandated by the United Nations Charter.

You could have just written: "Yes."

...And failed.

Of course you failed to understand the legality of the war in Iraq.

Well, along with the Rest of the World, the entire apparatus of the United Nations, and in fact, anyone other than the Bush Administration and its most loyal supporters...

So, uh, WHY did the Bush Administration try to get explicit authorisation from the UNSC for the Invasion of Iraq?

Was the Bush Administration successful in that attempt?

Did it go ahead and invade Iraq anyway?

You hate Bush so much that you have forced your head up your ass to such a degree that you cannot even read the UNSC resolutions that categorically state that they have given Saddam his "LAST CHANCE."

If that is what previous UNSC resolutions had "categorically" stated, WHY did the Bush Administration return to the UN and try desperately to get another resolution to authorise its Invasion of Iraq?

Why was the Invasion of Iraq carried out under the auspices of the "Coalition of the Willing", rather than the United Nations, as was the action to repulse Iraq's Invasion of Iraq.

If Saddam Hussein was in "material breach" of the cease-fire set at the end of Gulf War I, in 2003, he must have been in breach of that same cease-fire agreement throughout the 1990's, and indeed, from the moment that cease-fire agreement was implemented.

Why did George Bush the First not invade Iraq? Why did Bill Clinton not invade Iraq? Why did George Bush the Second wait until 2003 to invade Iraq?

And of course, why did the UNSC not explicitly authorise the 2003 Invasion; AND explicitly denounce the 2003 Invasion as illegal?

In Reply To #57

It's the above quote that - no matter how many times I read it - says that all treaties made...under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land.

Well, read it as if it were POINT BLANK ENGLISH.

The key phrase is "which shall be made in pursuance thereof" which means that treaties and laws are only the SUPREME LAW OF THE LAND so long as they follow the Constitution.

This is why a TREATY or a LAW is VOID when found to be UNCONSTITUTIONAL.

So EvilFitch...

Are you saying that the United Nations Treaty - created, authored and promoted by the United States of America, following World War Two - is UNCONSTITUTIONAL, and is subsequently a VOID Treaty, despite not having been overturned by or even challenged at SCOTUS?

That's got to be one of the biggest fuck-ups in Diplomatic History, hasn't it?

The United States created probably one of the finest (if not THE finest) International Treaty in Humanity's History; based it more or less on its entirety on the United States' OWN Constitution...

And now... According to our EvilFitch: that Treaty is null and void because it goes against the precepts of the US Constitution.

Or, are you NOT saying that the UN Charter is a void treaty because it is UNCONSTITUTIONAL?

Peace