In Reply To #12

Comes right after paragraph ii, about treaties being entered into with the authority of the United States of America, forming part of the Supreme Law of the Land, doesn't it?

;-)

You mean the part where it says:

 This Constitution, and the laws of the United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof; AND all treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land; and the judges in every state shall be bound thereby, anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding. ?

According to that, only the US Constitution, which includes laws and treaties that are constitutional but DOES NOT include laws and treaties which are not constitutional, is the Supreme Law of the land.

It is amazing what one can learn when he applies a bit of reading comprehension eh boyo?  ;)

That's very True.

Why do you always fail to comprehend the "AND all treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of the United States" bit when you read it?

Incidentally, did you catch Gordon Brown's (the new British Prime Minister) speech yesterday, with the new UN Secretary General?

He said in future, the UK Government would NOT bypass the United Nations when electing to go to War.

http://news.independent.co.uk/uk/politics/article2765566.ece

:)

So that basically means he will continue to do what he (the UK) and the USA have done all along:  enforce UNSC resolutions.

No, no, it means that:

In another break with Tony Blair, Mr Brown assured Ban Ki-moon, the UN secretary general, that he would seek the widest possible international support and agreement through the UN before intervening in another country

In other words, he will try really, really, REALLY hard, not to break International Law, next Time the US tells a British Prime Minister to invade another sovereign country: unlike his predecessor.

Or, he might just ignore such requests from the US altogether. :)

Peace

PS. 'S alright Deanna, I'm off on vacation for two weeks on Sunday. This is just a Coda. :)