In Reply To #116

UN Resolution 1441 gave Saddam Hussein one final chance to allow UN Inspectors to demonstrate compliance with all previous Resolutions against Iraq.

So what does "one final chance" suppose?  There are two and ONLY two ways for R.1441 to actually be "one final chance":

1)	Saddam complies and the matter goes away completely.

2)	Saddam fails to comply in which he is removed from power.

Oh, I see where you're getting confused now.

YOU think that the UN Resolution 1441 states that Saddam Hussein would be immediately removed from power if he fails to comply.

If you read the Resolution, you'll notice it doesn't say any such thing.

If those UN Inspectors found Iraq to NOT be in compliance with those previous Resolutions, then the UNSC would reconvene to discuss how best to handle the situation, in light of the need for International Peace and Security.

And what is the only logical solution once Saddam has been found in non-compliance to 1441???

The only logical RESPONSE would be for the United Nations Security Council to reconvene, and seriously consider how to proceed multilaterally, with the legitimacy of the UN.

Clearly it would be utterly illogical to let just one or two members of the UNSC to charge off on some ill-fated, hare-brained Invasion, that could only bring death and carnage to Iraq.

(Which it has.)

And you know, I think that if you were more confident of your position, your posts wouldn't be three-quarters full of insults.

Does this mean you have no confidence when you posted post #44?

In Reply To #44

Were you alive in January and February 2003?

'Cos I thought you were born yesterday.

Read this, fuckwit:

http://www.guardian.co.uk/Iraq/Story/0,2763,1089158,00.html

Well, given that that insult was directed at SomeTwat, it's a mystery why you've quoted it here.

It's probably because I've been deliciously careful not to insult you too overtly in this thread (you need a Long Strategy to play a Long Game ;-)), so it was the best you could come up with.

Bet you were real frustrated when you went through the entire thread and couldn't find any insults from me to you that even begin to compare with the number of insults you've been throwing at me. :)

Anyway, to answer your question:

No, I'm completely confident that SomeTwat is a Fuckwit.

And I'm also fairly confident that is the consensus view around here.

You know, you really should try being part of the consensus some time EvilFitch: it'll make you so much less unpopular. :)

Peace