In Reply To #79

I'm sorry EvilFitch, you'll have to help me out a bit here - clearly I'm being a bit slow today.

From what I read when 1441 was first produced - and I haven't noticed any changes in it no matter how many times you re-post it - I don't recall - and can't see - anything in it stating that failure to comply with it will result in the United States and its allies immediately invading Iraq and ousting Saddam Hussein's Government.

I mean, I can see:

12. Decides to convene immediately upon receipt of a report in accordance with paragraphs 4 or 11 above, in order to consider the situation and the need for full compliance with all of the relevant Council resolutions in order to secure international peace and security;

...Which seems to say that Iraq's failure to comply with this Resolution will result in... A Meeting!

And I mean, alright, meetings can be difficult, and I guess a meeting of all the World's leaders - or just those on the Security Council - would be REAL tedious; but it's not quite the same as: "Your country will immediately be invaded by foreign troops."

Then there is:

13. Recalls, in that context, that the Council has repeatedly warned Iraq that it will face serious consequences as a result of its continued violations of its obligations;

...Which just seems to, uh, "Recall" that Iraq has been warned by the Security Council that it will face "serious consequences" - but with no explicit definition of what those "serious consequences" might entail.

And:

14. Decides to remain seized of the matter

...Which as I'm sure you know, is the UN Security Council's way of saying to the General Assembly, and all member nations' governments:

"Hands off! WE are dealing with this!"

So, you know, the reason I've not been delving into 1441 EvilFitch, is because I really didn't want to embarrass you.

There is NOTHING in 1441 that authorises ANYONE to use military force, EVEN IF Iraq is found to be in breach of the Resolution.

See, instead of you just keep throwing up the same bit of diplomatic legalese, in order to try and "Call the Win" on this argument; you've got to actually EXPLAIN why it supports your position that the United States was legally within its rights to invade Iraq, without the explicit authorisation of the UNSC.

By way of contrast, take a look at UNSC Resolution 687, calling for Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait in 1991:

http://www.fas.org/news/un/iraq/sres/sres0687.htm

Clause 4 states:

"[The Security Council] Decides to guarantee the inviolability of the above-mentioned international boundary and to take as appropriate all necessary measures to that end in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations;"

Pretty unambiguous, no?

No such clarity in 1441, is there?

Or perhaps there is, but I'm afraid old bean, the onus is upon you to point it out.

Your problem is, that in addition to asking me (and I guess by definition, Everyone else still reading this thread: both of them... ;-)) to forget what the Bush Administration tried to do at the UN in January and February 2003; you're ALSO asking us to forget the whole broo-ha-ha that blew up around the wording of 1441.

Point being that 1441 only got passed, because it was so watered down as to not have any spring-loaded traps in it.

1441 uh, EXPLICITLY states that it is giving Iraq "a final opportunity" to comply.

It also goes to great length to describe how compliance will be assessed by UNMOVIC and the IAEA - nope, no mention of the US being the Final Arbiter...

And states equally explicitly that non-compliance will be reported back to the UN Security Council (who were "remaining seized of the matter", and all that); and it would then be the UNSC that would decide on what further course or courses of action would be taken.

In the end, 1441 was passed unanimously - including by Syria - precisely BECAUSE there was no room or ambiguity in it that would allow the United States to commence its Invasion, without the explicit authorisation of the UNSC.

It was THAT EXPLICIT AUTHORISATION that the Bush Administration went back to the UN in January and February 2003 to get.

And of course, failed to get.

Now, if you would just concede this rather small and somewhat given point; we can get on to discussing what sort of punishment President Bush and Vice-President Cheney should face.

Peace