In Reply To #86

As usual, I asked a specific question and, in response, you have given me BULL SHIT with NO ANSWER.

Why don't you answer the question?  Hell, you asked me to clerifiy my question and yet you HAVE NOT ANSWERED THE QUESTION!

Is it that you CANNOT answer the question or is it rather that you WILL NOT answer the simple question I have asked?

Alright, alright, keep your hair on.

I think the problem is that you're so busy looking for "The Win", that you're no longer really thinking about what I'm writing. I mean, the way you keep banging on about *MY* reading comprehension skills, suggests an insecurity about your OWN comprehension skills.

And, let's not forget, I'm the one that *ALWAYS* answers questions: you're the evasive one.

Right then: what do I think "One Final Chance" means?

I think it means: one last chance to do what you are told, or... (Wait for it...)

...

SOMETHING ELSE will happen.

Now, YOU are the one that keeps re-posting Resolution 1441; and YOU are the one who keeps criticising ME for my reading comprehension skills, or lack thereof.

But surely, if you have examined Resolution 1441 as thoroughly as you claim - and as thoroughly as you assume I haven't - then it would be clear to you that what would happen if Saddam failed to comply - and his non-compliance was reported back to the UNSC by UNMOVIC and the IAEA, as explicitly detailed in the Resolution - is that the Security Council would:

(And I'm quoting here:)

12. Decides to convene immediately upon receipt of a report in accordance with paragraphs 4 or 11 above, in order to consider the situation and the need for full compliance with all of the relevant Council resolutions in order to secure international peace and security;

So I'm sorry EvilFitch, but I'm afraid "A Meeting" is *ALL* that UNSC Resolution 1441 promises, IF Saddam was reported - by UNMOVIC and the IAEA - back to the UNSC as being not in compliance.

To answer your question then, as explicitly as I know how:

UN Resolution 1441 gave Saddam Hussein a "Final Chance" to give the UNMOVIC and IAEA inspectors full co-operation with their inspections;

And IF he failed to take advantage of that "Final Chance", THEN THE UNSC WOULD CONVENE AGAIN TO CONSIDER WHAT TO DO NEXT.

As the rest of the non-senile members of this Community seem to attest, it was pretty clear at the time, how pissed the Bush Administration was, at not getting a Resolution that authorised the UNSC-sanctioned use of force, if Saddam was not in compliance.

And the reason why the Bush Administration returned to the UNSC in January and February 2003; was to try to demonstrate to the UNSC's satisfaction that Saddam WAS in breach of 1441; and to get the UNSC to authorise military action.

Something that we all know that the Bush Administration signally failed to do.

Given what you have said here, there are only three logical possibilities to explain your comments:

1) The most likely case is that you simply have not read 1441 in its entirety.

2) You are a complete dullard and cannot comprehend what is written.

3) You are ignoring what you have read in favor for what you WANT to be the case.  In other words, you are a damn liar.

My best guess is somewhat of a mix of one and three (although I am not completely discounting 2).

Nice, but let's keep it civil.

I've noticed that a strategy you employ when you're not getting the best of an argument is to: make things personal; incite abuse from whomever you're arguing with; allow the thread to descend into bitterness and rancour; until a Mod is forced to close it.

Once the thread is closed, or distracted into personal insults, you no longer need to keep substantiating your position.

But that won't help you this Time: I'm ONTO YOUR GAME, young feller me lad! And no matter how many barbs and insults you've thrown at me in this thread, you'll notice I haven't picked up any and thrown them back at you.

Cool Blood, as the French say. ;-)

Peace