Alright then 'Slacks, now that the Gimp has stopped gibbering, let me offer an alternative explanation for the subject under discussion - a discussion somewhat relevant to this July 4th day. :)

Tell you what, have a read through the below, and then let us know which, uh, "explanation" you find more plausible and rational, and which makes more sense to you.

Let's start with Article VI of the U.S. Constitution: it's been endlessly quoted in the thread already, so I'll discard the first and third paragraphs of the Article, which only deal with debt obligations and religious qualification.

This Constitution, and the laws of the United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof; and all treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land; and the judges in every state shall be bound thereby, anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.

The important thing to understand about the U.S. Constitution, is that it wasn't constructed with a view to establish political independence and national autonomy from the British Empire; that job fell to the Declaration of Independence - 231 years old today! Yay!

The purpose of the Constitution was (and is) to establish how the Government of the newly formed United States of America would (and can) operate.

The United States Constitution is arguably the greatest document ever produced during the Enlightenment. The Founding Fathers demonstrated incredible prescience in foreseeing the challenges and threats that the Constitution would come under. Having effectively solved the "British Problem", the Founding Fathers turned their attention to what they considered would be the greatest on-going threat to the Constitution and the Unites States: the Rule of Tyrants.

Jefferson and Madison, to name but two, recognised the inherent corruptibility of individuals who reached the greatest heights of power over other human beings. Clearly very well read in Classical History, they paid particular attention to the collapse of the Roman Republic in the early 40's BCE; why and how that collapse came about, and the tyrannical rule of the Emperors that followed it.

But the framers of the Constitution had another important task, beyond simply preventing the usurpation of power by tyrants. At the time the Constitution was being constructed at the Philadelphia Convention of 1787, there were only 13 individual and separate states coming together in Union.

It is easy to forget that when America celebrates it's birthday, it's a bit of a piecemeal affair for them - not everyone gets to sit at the, uh, "High Table".

The original 13 States that formed the first Union of North American British States, were:

• New Hampshire

• Massachusetts (later Massachusetts and Maine)

• Rhode Island

• New York (later New York & Vermont)

• New Jersey

• Pennsylvania

• Delaware

• Maryland

• Virginia (later Virginia, Kentucky and West Virginia)

• North Carolina (later North Carolina and Tennessee)

• South Carolina

• Georgia

The first big expansion comes with the Louisiana Purchase in 1803, when the United States of (still British) America, buys the following "States" from Napoleon Bonaparte (who'd pinched most of them from the Spanish), for $15 million:

Arkansas; Missouri; Iowa; Oklahoma; Kansas; Nebraska; Minnesota; North Dakota; South Dakota; New Mexico; Texas (north); Montana; Wyoming; Colorado; and of course, Louisiana.

Here, this image does the job with much less words:

http://www.1person.com/images/U_S__Territorial_Acquisitions.jpg

It isn't until the mid-1800's - and a lot of War later, that what we know today as the United States of America, really starts to take shape.

So, what is relevant to this discussion, is that the 13 original states of the Union, were all, between Independence from Britain, and prior to the Union, autonomous entities, politically and nationally independent from each other - in exactly the same way as EU members once were.

Each one of the original 13 individual states was a national entity unto itself, with its own independent legislative, judicial and executive bodies. What the framers of the Constitution required then was a statement to establish what would be the "Supreme Law of the Land"; in other words, what form of Law had superiority over all others.

And this is the purpose of Article VI, paragraph 2 of the US Constitution.

It had nothing to do with the separation of powers between the legislature, the judiciary and the executive; it was all to do with establishing legal dominion across the member states of the new Union.

Hence:

"This Constitution, and the laws of the United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof; and all treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land;"

Now, returning to the subject at hand, what is crucial is the use of "AND [all treaties made]", and "...under the authority of the United States".

There is no distinction made between the Constitution, the Laws of the United States, or "all treaties made", provided they are made "under the authority of the United States".

It is fairly obvious that it was essential to establish the new Central Government's power to conduct foreign affairs. It was necessary the United States speak with one voice in matters of international diplomacy. To have 13 individual and separate states each conducting their own foreign policy, making their own treaties, and sending and receiving their own ambassadors, would have been completely impractical.

So provided that such treaties were made "under the authority of the United States" - as opposed to individual State members of the Union making their own treaties - then such treaties made, AND the Constitution and the Laws of the United States, "shall be the supreme law of the land."

Now, returning to arguably the primary objective of the Constitution - the prevention of usurpation of popular power by tyrants - it was obviously critical that neither the Federal Executive nor Legislature (the President or Congress) be allowed to authorise a treaty that would invalidate any areas of the Constitution or Bill of Rights.

What point a Constitution or Bill of Rights, if a President could bypass its limitations and prohibitions, by signing up to an International Treaty?

James Madison said:

" I do not conceive that power is given to the President and the Senate to dismember the empire, or alienate any great, essential right. I do not think the whole legislative authority have this power. The exercise of the power must be consistent with the object of the delegation."

And Thomas Jefferson elaborated:

By the general power to make treaties, the Constitution must have intended to comprehend only those objects which are usually regulated by treaty, and cannot be otherwise regulated.... It must have meant to except out of those the rights reserved to the states; for surely the President and Senate cannot do by treaty what the whole government is interdicted from doing in any way.

So when paragraph 2 of Article VI of the US Constitution states "...under the authority of the United States", it means, quite explicitly, that NO treaties with foreign powers may be entered into, without the full authorisation and ratification of the entirety of the US Government.

The idea that the President or Congress could sign a treaty with another nation, without the full approval of the other, is patently absurd. The Judiciary's role in treaty-signing, is solely to ensure legal validation of treaties: if a treaty violates the US Constitution or Bill of Rights, it simply can NOT be ratified.

Perhaps the most apposite and contemporary example of this, would be the Treaty for the Establishment of an International Criminal Court.

Opinion in the Bush Administration - and within much of Congress - was that the ICC Treaty ran counter to the US Constitution and US Law - citing the lack of "Due Process", absence of right to trial by jury, and protection against "Double Jeopardy", amongst other things. That's arguable, and in fact, David Scheffer, who led the US delegation to the Rome Conference (and who voted against adoption of the Treaty), said:

"When we were negotiating the Rome treaty, we always kept very close tabs on, 'Does this meet U.S. constitutional tests, the formation of this court and the due process rights that are accorded defendants?' And we were very confident at the end of Rome that those due process rights, in fact, are protected, and that this treaty does meet a constitutional test."

http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/0001/02/bp.00.html

(Not really clear then why he voted against it then; but I guess it'd probably have something to do with the US Government having to be run by the garbage men and toilet cleaners, whilst most of the Principals were in the dock at The Hague...)

However, the pertinent point here is this:

Once a prospective International Treaty has passed the "Constitutional Test"; and once it has been ratified by Congress, and approved by the President, the statutes in that Treaty become, along with the Constitution and US Law..:

"...the supreme law of the land."

Of course, the treaty can still be challenged within the US judicial and legislative system; but if the precepts of a treaty are going to be ignored or discarded, then it requires a CHANGE IN LEGISLATION to be conducted through the usual channels.

The Supreme Court can challenge the validity of a Treaty, but any such challenges are usually carried out prior to ratification. SCOTUS does not have the unitary power, in and of itself, to invalidate a Treaty made under the "Authority of the United States".

Congress and the President must ratify any Treaty entered into; and Congress and the President must also approve any withdrawal from a Treaty.

Hope that's cleared that up...

Now then, turning specifically to the UN Charter Treaty (didn't think you were going to get off that lightly, did you?):

It is shall we say, understandable, that the United States is unlikely to authorise an International Treaty, which once ratified, would lead to immediate penalties for the Government and/or People of the United States.

We can point at such fragrant aspirations on the part of the USG to establish pluralistic and representative democracy throughout the World, and then highlight the hypocrisy of it thwarting attempts to establish the basic foundations for that, through its failure to ratify essential treaties like the ICC and Kyoto protocols. But let's face it, who amongst us WOULD approve of our own government signing up to something that immediately led to hardships for ourselves?

So, let's put aside for a moment, US attitudes to treaties created and authored by tree-hugging Scandinavians, and virtuous defenders of International Justice.

Let's look solely at the UN Charter.

The United Nations Charter was the creation of and was authored by, the United States Government.

The United States Government drafted the UN Charter, and then cajoled, convinced and coerced other countries in the immediately post-World War Two World, to sign up to the UN Charter.

If there is anything in the UN Charter that the current US Government objects to - or finds itself restricted by - it has only previous US Governments to blame.

The UN Charter is not a Treaty that the US was pressured into signing; it is a Treaty that the US created, and pressured OTHER nations into signing.

The United States of America CREATED the United Nations.

You can tell the provenance of the UN Charter from it's pre-amble:

" WE THE PEOPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS DETERMINED

to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind, and

to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small, and

to establish conditions under which justice and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law can be maintained, and

to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom,

AND FOR THESE ENDS

to practice tolerance and live together in peace with one another as good neighbours, and

to unite our strength to maintain international peace and security, and

to ensure, by the acceptance of principles and the institution of methods, that armed force shall not be used, save in the common interest, and

to employ international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples,

HAVE RESOLVED TO COMBINE OUR EFFORTS TO ACCOMPLISH THESE AIMS

Accordingly, our respective Governments, through representatives assembled in the city of San Francisco, who have exhibited their full powers found to be in good and due form, have agreed to the present Charter of the United Nations and do hereby establish an international organization to be known as the United Nations.

http://www.un.org/aboutun/charter/

Sound familiar?

And, in nearly sixty years of the United Nations Charter, the United States never once broke the fundamental principle of the UN Charter, Article 2, clause 4:

All Members shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state, or in any other manner inconsistent with the Purposes of the United Nations.

Of course, what the United States did do on many occasions, was use covert action and diplomatic expediency, to pursue its foreign policy objectives. So the CIA "assisted" many local groups in overthrowing governments; and in the case of Vietnam, the US was "invited" by the South Vietnamese government to assist it in its conflict with North Vietnam.

It is ONLY with the Invasion and subsequent Occupation of Iraq, in 2003, that for the first time since creating and signing on to the UN Charter, a United States Government explicitly broke the founding principle of that Charter: the sovereign and inviolable territorial integrity and political independence of any state.

The US-created UN Charter is a part of the "Supreme Law of the Land" in the United States.

The Bush Administration broke the UN Charter when it invade Iraq; therefore it also violated the Supreme Law of the United States.

For this reason above all others (warrant-less wire-tapping, "signing statements", suspension of habeas corpus, breach of the Posse Comitatus Act, the list is endless...), the current President and Vice-President MUST, by Constitutional imperative, be impeached.

It isn't a political or moral issue: it is a Constitutional crisis.

...

There 'Slacks, how'd I do? :)

Peace