In Reply To #19

In Reply To #17

That's very True.

Yes; I know it is very true.  So why did you bother posting something that is not true?

Bait?

Why do you always fail to comprehend the "AND all treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of the United States" bit when you read it?

Did you not read what was written?

Do you not understand the basic phrase that is written in plain English that goes as follows:  which shall be made in pursuance thereof;

This is not hard.

No TREATY is the Supreme law of the land.

No single Congressional LAW is the Supreme law of the land.

The US Constitution is the Supreme law of the land.

What's interesting here, Mister Comprehension, is that you seem to be - and have been - labouring under the impression that *I* think that the UN Charter is the only and sole "Supreme Law of the [US] Land".

Or that any single International Treaty might be the sole and "Supreme Law of the Land".

But as you'll recall, I've in fact been repeatedly emphasising the "AND" part of the clause, to demonstrate that any International Treaties entered into "with the authority of the United States of America", form a PART of the "Supreme Law of the Land", along with all legislation that, like those International Treaties, conforms with the US Constitution.

The UN Charter, is just one example of an International Treaty entered into by the United States of America, which DOES conform with the US Constitution (naturally, it was created by the United States), and therefore forms a PART of the "Supreme Law of the Land"; along with all the other Constitutionally valid US legislation.

So you know, to borrow a leaf out of your book: please feel free to show me where I have ever stated that I believe the UN Charter (or any other US-enjoined International Treaty), to be the SOLE and "Supreme Law of the Land".

Ergo any LAW or TREATY which sits in violation of the US Constitution, the Supreme Law of the United States of America, is not binding.

Fair enough.

Does the United Nations Charter sit in violation of the US Constitution, EvilFitch?

Or, he might just ignore such requests from the US altogether. :)

Which is it?  Did Blair decide to commit British forces to Iraq because an American President "requested" him to do so or because an American President "TOLD" him to do so?

Umm...

B!

I choose ANSWER B! Tony Blair decided to commit British forces to Iraq, because the President of the United States of America TOLD him to!

There! Am I right? Do I win the car?

Peace