I do wonder if the greater danger the Human species faces at the moment, is slipping into a new Dark Age...

Where superstition in its 21st Century guise of suspicion, is in danger of supplanting Reason.

The Dark and Middle Ages of Humanity were absolutely and completely dominated by fear and existential dread. In the absence of a rational understanding of the Natural World, humans created all sorts of stories to fit the events and phenomena they witnessed and were affected by.

This reached its apotheotic manifestation with organised religion, particularly the monotheistic variety in Europe and West Asia.

Failure to dogmatically adhere to religiously-authorized definitions of Reality was widely and terribly punished. In retrospect, it is difficult to see that what most humans imagined would happen to their post-mortem souls in consequence for a sinful life, could have been any worse than the very-real medieval horrors inflicted upon them by organs such as the Spanish Inquisition.

Then came the Renaissance. The twin Ages of Enlightenment and Reason grew from this re-birth.

It was no longer about how fervently a person, institution or nation believed, but about how well they could reason an argument. An argument based on available evidence that could be understood and verified by others.

But Reason has yet to deliver a knock-out punch to Superstition.

The German Nazi Party based its ideology and policies on the irrational and unfounded fear of "the Other", and packaged it in an occult belief about an "Aryan Master Race". It created a message that was more appetising and seductive for impoverished and fearful Germans in the 1930's, than the more challenging suggestion that perhaps supporting the Kaiser's "Great War" had not been such a good idea after all, and that there was a price that needed to be paid for that mistake.

And look how that turned out...

A century later, and our Human World is still divided between the Rational and the Superstitious.

Any opinion, attitude or policy that cannot be fully evidenced and verified, is superstition.

It doesn't matter what it pertains to:

The origins of a virus causing a Global Pandemic; the objectives of a mass-vaccination programme; the reliability of vote-counting in an election; threats posed to "Our Way of Life" by different cultures, religions, ideologies, sexual and gender orientations...

Without verifiable evidence of an actual threat to our Existence (like the vast quantities of verifiable evidence pertaining to Climate Change, or the corrupt practices of the Banking Sector, for example), it is just superstition and fear.

Humanity is currently in the grip of a viral pandemic that is causing widespread premature loss of Life.

Only superstition disputes that.

Very rational people working as scientists for pharmaceutical companies that are rationally motivated by financial gain, have been working tirelessly to create vaccines that will protect humans against Covid-19.

More resources have been dedicated to creating a Covid-19 vaccine than for any previous pharmaceutical treatment.

Anyone with a rational understanding of pharmaceuticals will tell you that when these vaccines are deployed to vast numbers of human beings, there definitely will be a number of cases of individuals having an adverse reaction.

The reason why most medications have to go through very lengthy approval processes, is the attempt to keep the number of adverse reactions as small as possible.

But in the case of Covid-19, there is a greater need to deploy vaccines that are effective against it.

It is absolutely guaranteed that of the billions of human beings who will be administered with a Covid-19 vaccine over the next year or so, a small percentage of them will have an adverse reaction. No control measure is ever completely free of risk.

The greater risk to Humanity as a whole, is that we allow superstition and unfounded suspicions to get in the way of the most rational course of action.

Reason is how we vaccinate against Superstition.