In Reply To #13

In Reply To #9

In Reply To #8

You still think that with the hundreds of thousands of deaths in Iraq over the last four years, that the Invasion and Occupation was a Humanitarian mission?

Exactly how many have died in Iraq Holyman?

Well you can't answer that, can you?

And given that you support the Invasion and Occupation that is supposed to be "helping" the Iraqis, don't you think it highly irresponsible that the US is NOT keeping an accurate record of the mortality rates in Iraq since the Invasion?

I mean, if nothing else, surely it would be a good metric to measure, uh, "Progress"...

Are you still hanging on to the Lancet Report's statistical projection?  Has Lancet released its source data yet?  As of last month they had not.  Very odd for a "peer reviewed" study.

You know what...

Yes, I *DO* now completely and fully accept the findings of the Lancet Study.

Previously, I just took it as a study in epidemiology, with the actual number of deaths estimated to be neither here nor there, since even a *slight* increase in the mortality rate post-invasion over the rate under Saddam Hussein was sufficient to demonstrate the venality and counter-productiveness of this "War".

But the more you keep banging on about the Report, and the more desperately you try to minimise and de-legitimise its findings, the more inclined I am to support its findings, if no other reason than you find it so irritating.

I suppose the implication is that if I accept the Lancet Report as credible, you would use that to try and discredit my overall position. But since you don't give my position any credibility anyway - and since you have no credibility of your own - it doesn't look like I've got anything to worry about, does it.

Tell you what, that 650,000 figure was just a median range figure; and since it was conducted coming up a couple of years ago, I'm sure I can safely put the number of deaths in Iraq as a result of the US Invasion, at a round 1 million.

It's still not close to the 3 million figure the US managed in Vietnam, but if it'll keep you distracted, 1 million deaths is the figure I'm going to use from now on.

How'd'ya like THEM apples?

I use this number as my metric.  More Iraqis died under Saddam in virtually any two year period then have been killed since the war started in 2003.

We just did not have the world's press corps documenting and headlining every single Iraqi death in the 1990's like we do today.

So how do you know how many Iraqis died in virtually any two year period under Saddam then?

Are you including the number of Iraqis that died under the US-UK maintained Sanctions Regime in the 1990's?

The main parallel between Vietnam and Iraq Foota, is that if the US hadn't gone blundering blindly into those two countries, with all guns blazing, on a pointless ideological crusade, then the many, many, MANY people who died as a consequence, would still be alive.

Do the results of the Korean war give you pause to your claim above?

Not really, no.

I was talking about Vietnam and Iraq.

I'm not sure why you bring up the Korean War...

What exactly *COULD* the US have done to transition post-Invasion Vietnam to a Peaceful Democracy?

What exactly *CAN* the US do to transition Iraq to anything even remotely Peaceful?

The same thing we did in Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, and Philippines.  Like the countries listed above, we need to make a longterm commitment to see this through.

But in Germany, Italy and Japan, "You" were dealing with broken and shattered First World Societies, that put up no resistance, and indeed WELCOMED the social and economic aid that the United States gave them.

In Vietnam and Iraq, "You" lost and are losing military campaigns that you fought/are fighting just to try and convince the locals you claim/ed to be there to help, that you are indeed, just there to help.

Have you considered that Iraqis, like the Vietnamese, did not invite your "assistance", and would rather you stopped trying to "Help" them?

It is certainly more moral then washing our hands of it.

Oh, I'm not proposing you "wash your hands" of Iraq...

You have a *WHOLE LOAD* of Reparations that you are obliged to make, if you want to salvage even a shred of morality for your Nation.

Peace