In Reply To #53

Add to that the expression of the idea "that such leadership requires military strength...and commitment to [Neo-Conservative] moral principle", and you should really be able to start seeing why everyone in the World not a Neo-Conservative finds the "Project for a New American Century" so utterly repugnant Foota.

Yes, it is "utterly repugnant" to state that American policy should strive to:

- Strengthen our ties to democratic allies

- Promote economic and political freedom

So repugnant indeed!  I can only assume based on your description "repugnant" that you would prefer if America did not try to foster ties with Democratic allies and did not try to promote political freedom?

Try this:

"American Leadership"

"Military Strength"

"Moral Principle"

That's all the repugnant stuff Foota.

Morality is too subjective to be a basis for Government.

Basic Human Rights are not an issue of morality, they are an issue of basic common sense.

The problem with "American/Neo-Conservative Morality" is that it is applied subjectively to suit the whim of the Neo-Conservatives.

I find militarism morally repugnant, since it can't help but negate Human Rights in application, regardless of the intent.

You would say that an Islamic suicide bomber targeting innocent civilians is immoral, and should be thwarted. But the militaristic methods you support to thwart such action, results in the deaths of many, many, MANY more innocent civilian deaths, than a whole regiment of suicide bombers could ever hope to achieve.

I call that immoral.

But I think beyond anything else - and OfficeLeper has very eloquently expressed this idea already - the belief you have that there is *ANYONE* left in the World who would trust or accept Neo-Conservative American Leadership, is entirely bankrupt.

Fact of the matter is, that the overwhelming majority of AMERICANS reject the Neo-Conservative "Leadership"; what the fuck makes you think anyone outside the U.S. either desires or would accept American hegemony?

Right now, the World awaits the economic and military collapse of the United States, not so that we can say "We Told You So!"; but because we need you out of the way so that we can begin to clear up the catastrophic mess you have created.

As your and your Dear Leader's rhetoric blatantly illustrate: your mindsets are stuck firmly in World War Two mode, sixty years after that dreadful conflict ended. A conflict I might add, that took place because other powerful national cliques decided that THEY knew better how to shape the World.

It isn't a question of finding, supporting and/or believing in the RIGHT ideology to dominate the World with: it is about understanding that the whole concept of a single national interest dominating (trying to dominate...) the World is precisely what leads to the conflicts we have been forced to witness.

Militarism is redundant and anachronistic.

And as the sole believer and primary purveyor of Militarism, so too is the Government of the United States of America.

Peace