In Reply To #43

The Project for the New American Century is a non-profit educational organization dedicated to a few fundamental propositions: that American leadership is good both for America and for the world; and that such leadership requires military strength, diplomatic energy and commitment to moral principle.

I still don't get it Traci.

What SPECIFICALLY do you disagree with?

All I get is vilification and use of pejoratives against PNAC and Neocons without any real substance about the difference in issues.

Well, I can't speak for Traci, but what I find so disagreeable is the presumption that the World feels that American leadership is as good for it, as the Neo-Conservatives (rather obviously) think it would be.

Add to that the expression of the idea "that such leadership requires military strength...and commitment to [Neo-Conservative] moral principle", and you should really be able to start seeing why everyone in the World not a Neo-Conservative finds the "Project for a New American Century" so utterly repugnant Foota.

PNAC seeks to assert unilateral American dominance on the People of the World, solely by dint of its transient military and economic dominance.

What is it makes you think that Neo-Conservative Morality and American Culture is so profoundly attractive, that humans all over the World would desire to be controlled by politicians in Washington D.C?

Oh, but of course, a certain resistance to that idea is anticipated by the Neo-Con boys, isn't it? Hence the need for "military strength".

Do you really not see the arrogance and hubris implicit in the PNAC manifesto? Those emotional energies alone are enough to make non-Neo-Conservatives to reject that manifesto out of hand.

Still, nice to hear you finally coming out and acknowledging PNAC as your guiding light in World Affairs Foota.

It wasn't so long ago that you were accusing me of being a "Conspiracy Theorist", every time I pointed out the manifesto commitments and precepts of the Project for a New American Century.

How Times Change. :)

Peace