In Reply To #64

In Reply To #63

Holyman this argument is getting so tedious.

One wonders why you persist with it then.

You always try and skate by the "ideology" discussion and only focus on the "methods".  Even saying that morality is insignificant because we can instead rely on our "common sense".  Whose common sense are you referring to?

There is only one form of common sense Foota: hence the name.

But I wouldn't say I "try and skate by the 'ideology' discussion [sic]", so much as I overtly and expressly ignore it.

I focus on EFFECTS, and the methods that produce those effects.

That's just plain common sense me old mate.

You obviously can not argue (with any credibility) that Al Qaeda's goals (Sharia Law, Worldwide Caliphate, subjugation of women) are somehow comparable to America's goals of political and economic freedom.

Nor do I ever attempt to do so.

So I wonder why you keep behaving as though that is what I am doing.

What I do however do, is point out that both the Neo-Conservatives and the Islamists are bent on imposing their own ideologies on the Rest of the World, and both parties believe that violence and militarism are the way to go about doing that.

Similar methods of course, but the United States is *SO* much more effective at generating and inflicting violence than the Islamists, that naturally it is the U.S. that draws most of my ire.

That of course and the fact (which I have pointed out to you on so many occasions) that nobody around here is trying to defend the Islamist thugs. It's just you and dwindling number of other members who are still trying to defend the violence inflicted on the World by the Bush Administration.

So you try to focus on methods instead.

You might take something from that Foota.

I have no argument with *YOUR* intent (though I distinguish your intentions from those of the Neo-Con's); it is just that your methods are so woefully counter-productive and violent.

Essentially making the same argument that cops are just as bad as the criminals because they both use violence to pursue their goals.

Specious Foota, really specious.

The Police do not routinely use violence to uphold the Law: they use it only in self-defence when trying to enforce the Law.

I am my own man and come up with my own positions.  History may prove my views wrong, but I never took solace in being part of the herd.

I think the Present is proving that you are certainly NOT your "own man" with your "own positions".

Peace