In Reply To #26

In Reply To #23

How exactly can that be compared to the ideologically-"justified" invasions and devastations of Vietnam and Iraq?

Peace

Germany = Ideological fight against Nazism War of Defence against a more powerful industrial nation that had declared War on the U.S. - we stuck around to help rebuild, so that said nation could pay reparations, and act as a bulwark against the Soviet Union during the Cold War

Japan = Ideological fight against Japanese Imperialism War of Defence against a more powerful industrial nation that launched an unprovoked attack and declared War on the U.S. - we stuck around to help rebuild, so that said nation could pay reparations, and act as a bulwark against the Soviet Union during the Cold War.

Korea = Ideological fight against Communism Strategic fight to attempt (unsuccessfully) to establish a military presence between the two principle Cold War enemies: the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China - we stuck around to help rebuild maintain an infantry presence capable of attacking either or both of the U.S.'s primary Cold War enemies.

Vietnam = Ideological fight against Communism - we were forced out before we could rebuild because the overwhelming majority of the population preferred Vietnamese Communism to American Imperialism; and despite killing 3 million Vietnamese, it became clear that the entire population of the Vietnamese Peninsular would rather fight to the death, than submit to American hegemony.

Afghanistan /Iraq = Ideological fights Vengeance-fuelled retaliation against the nation hosting the criminals who attacked the U.S. on 9/11 against Islamic Fascism - we are sticking around to help rebuild because we only managed to kill a few token Taliban, and they have now returned and have us bogged down in an un-winnable insurgency; having coerced NATO countries into doing most of the heavy-lifting, whilst US troops were moved to Iraq, leaving Afghanistan now would almost certainly signal the end of NATO. It also helps to have Iran surrounded, in case Dick Cheney fulfils his Strangelovian ambition of attacking that country.

Iraq -  a strike against a rogue and secular henchman of the U.S., to establish a permanent U.S. military presence in the primary region of the World's oil resources, and prepare for a strike against Tehran by fully encircling Iran. Opportunistically hi-jacking American popular sentiment to support and domestically justify kicking the shit out of some Arabs who looked a bit like those who carried out the criminal attacks on the United States on 9/11. With no discernible post-Invasion plan; and a sticking-plaster approach to rebuilding a shattered nation, in the face of overwhelming hostility from the Iraqi and U.S. populations.

There Foota: I fixed it for you.

I'm sure that's what you meant to write anyway...

Peace