[quote="Slacks"][quote="Holyman"][color=#0000FF]Best I can tell, there's an awful lot of political pressure to get miserable people back to doing jobs they fucking hate to pay debts they can't afford to service.

In case anyone has forgotten: most of us spent most of our time complaining about how shitty things used to be before Covid-19 showed up.

Why, on Earth, would intelligent people be in any rush to go back to that?[/color][/quote]

[color=#408080]Because there is a distinct lack of alternatives and long-term safeguards at the moment. I know too many people who have lost their jobs, or are shitting themselves on what happens when furlough ends, and their anxiety levels are through the roof. And too many people have homes that simply aren't suited to be working from, normally because of a distinct lack of space.

I really, really think now is the time to put some serious thought into Universal Income. It's not a silver bullet but I don't see any other way the economy can transition into something less insane than it was without causing major disruption and misery.[/color][/quote]

So here's the Thing...

There is a certain "Middle Class" (I'm using that term very broadly, don't worry too much about the precise metrics it suggests) perspective that inhibits the ability to experience Solidarity.

I'll briefly theorise that this is due a certain disposition towards the pursuit of competitive social advantage - but feel free to pull that out for further exploration!

The key distinction I notice between the "Working Class" (again: v. broadly defined) background I'm from, and the "Middle Class" culture I've been entertaining myself with for most of my adult life, is that those who have little or nothing are more disposed to finding Common Cause with those in a similar predicament, than those who feel that they have managed to edge slightly ahead of the Rabble.

In other words:

People with fuck-all, support each other much more readily than those who spend a lot of their lives comparing how many material crumbs they've managed to acquire, with other crumb-acquirers.

(I might get this into Plain English if I have another stab at it..!)

People who don't have much - including any prospects of ever having much - band together readily for the chances of getting a little more.

People who have slightly more (enough to distinguish themselves from those who don't have much), don't bond so readily with others of the same material status.

Finally then (!):

People with Nothing Left to Lose collaborate more freely than those who believe they *DO* have a little to lose.

All of which circumlocution is to try and make the point that the people you know who are anxious about their loss of job/income, might try and take comfort from the fact that there is Safety in Numbers.

Under the "Normal" course of affairs, a "Middle Class" type would be concerned about losing their income and future job prospects, because it would predicate a collapse in their financial - and therefore Social - status.

That in turn would give rise to serious psychological and emotional discombobulation, as they would have to come to terms with the fact that they were nowhere near as materially secure as they believed they were.

But there is nothing "Normal" about the current state of affairs.

We're all in it together.

Including - believe it or not - those with careers in politics and finance, who are largely responsible for Humanity's complete lack of preparedness to deal with this Pandemic.

Think about it. Can you name any profession or social group that is not adversely affected by the current situation, and the continuing uncertainty about the Future of Human Society?

No Human nation, culture or defined group is enjoying what is happening at the moment. Everything they (more or less) took for granted just 12 months ago, has evaporated in the face of an entirely Natural Event.

(Let's not get side-tracked on the provenance of that term. If - though it seems highly unlikely - this particular coronavirus is the work of a particular group of primates somewhere on the Planet... Well, that troop, barrel or whoop is as much a product of our Natural World as anything else.)

Consider the Human Trajectory over the last century or so.

An increasingly supercilious attitude towards the Natural World has transmuted into an equally disdainful attitude towards our fellow Human Beings. And for the last fifty years, Individualism has been relentlessly promoted as an Article of Faith (remember when Margaret Thatcher declared "There is no such thing as Society."?)

And Hyper-Individualism has been remorselessly capitalised on to promote massive and Environmentally-destructive Consumerism.

Since the turn of the Millennium, we've all been asked to consider the longevity of that approach to Collective Existence, in the context of Sustainability. And whilst a good number of us have paid mental- and lip-service to the Understanding that we're undermining the Foundations of our Existence, any suggestion that a Radical Reconfiguration of Human Society is existentially necessary has been reacted to with instinctive suspicion and hostility.

How much longer did we really believe we could keep turning a Blind Eye to what we were all doing?

Life has been pretty shit for a lot of humans for a long time - most of Time, actually.

However, since the end of World War Two, certain technological and scientific advances have meant that Life hasn't been quite as shit for a slightly larger percentage of an increasing population of Humans...

In particular, a certain "Middle Class" sensibility has emerged around such utilities as clean, running water, indoor-toilets, more-or-less reliable food and energy supplies, and the belief that it might be possible to obtain a degree of material security and stability, if one is willing to put in the hours.

But let's be honest, that has all been based on the Principle of Not Sharing:

Don't share what you've got; and don't expect others to share what they've got with you.

(Jesus would be spinning on his cross like a firework-wheel, if He hadn't Ascended...)

Well, now we are at a Moment in Human History where we need to re-evaluate that approach; to consider how well that's working out for us all; to think about how much longer we can sustain that approach.

It's Time to Wake Up.

The stench of the effluent that flows from our insensitivity to the plight of others has brought on a great malaise that is hitting all of us where it hurts: in our sense of Existential Security.

For the greatest majority of us, Life has been about Individual Survival.

Without a Social Mechanism to guarantee the delivery of basic human essentials to *ALL* of us, how can we ever have a solid foundation on which to build our Collective Future?

Of course it is Time for Universal Basic Income.

And it is also Time for Guaranteed Healthcare for All. And guarantees of shelter, education, food and energy.

For Everyone.

And to those who say that Humanity can't afford this, I say that the onus is upon them to prove that. And if they can prove it (they can't...), to explain to us all why making it affordable isn't our Top Priority.

We've been stuck for too long on the idea that we have to compete and conflict with each other, in order to ensure our individual survival.

But it shouldn't take a great deal of Intelligence to figure out that the only sustainable way of ensuring our individual survival, is to guarantee our Collective Survival.

People who are concerned or anxious about their prospects of getting through this as individuals, really do need to let go of that conditioned obsession.

One way or another, we all got ourselves into this Mess. And the *ONLY* way out of it...

Is Together.

It's only Natural.