[quote="Slacks"][quote="Holyman"][color=#0000FF]People who are concerned or anxious about their prospects of getting through this as individuals, really do need to let go of that conditioned obsession.[/color][/quote]

[color=#008080]Much, much easier said than done.

I do understand everything that you're saying, and I hope that whole thing represents the Great Realisation that actually the constant pursuit of more material comfort at great expense to love and our mental state. But in the here and now it is difficult for anyone to look beyond the next few months which for a lot of people look rather bleak. And this isn't taking into account that a lot of people like having a routine and structure to their lives which work helps to facilitate. Right or wrong, it's just what people know.[/color][/quote]

Could that be summarised as:

"Better the Devil you know, than the Devil you don't"?

Thanks for the response though: helps me focus!

I believe Humanity is in the mess it is currently in, precisely because it only thinks in the Short Term.

Think about Addiction.

An addict know that in the Long Term, it would be *MUCH* more beneficial for them to give up whatever it is they are addicted to.

But in the Immediate- and Short-Term... Their addictions appear to help them cope.

E.g. "Yeah, yeah. I know that if I give up drinking/smoking/drug-abuse right now, in a year or so from now, my Life will be massively improved. But how the fuck am I meant to get through the next month, if I can't drink, smoke or inject?"

To transpose:

Life is a grind for a lot of people. There's never enough money. There's never quite enough comfort. And it always seems like most everyone else we know seems to be having a better time of things than we are.

And the method a lot of use to "Get Through It", is to find solace in "the comfort of the old routine".

A lot of people "like having a routine and structure to their lives", because it helps them cope with the fact that their lives are a constant struggle.

I.e. burying one's Self in work helps us spend less time thinking about the fact that we have to spend so much of our lives working...

It's a self-reinforcing mechanism that makes many of us slaves. But slaves that don't need chains, because we chain ourselves to "responsibilities" that few of us would have willingly chosen.

We end up like those donkeys that are forced to spend their lives walking in circles around a village's water-well in the Sahara. Being constantly required to elevate the water for our "Masters", we end up carving deep ruts with our footfalls. Remove the ropes that bind us to the pole driving the well, and we still can't step out of those ruts, because the sides are so steep, we keep slipping back in.

It becomes all we know. Our lives are defined by activities that if we had genuine Freedom, we'd never choose to do.

And now, there is a Humanity-wide Event that is preventing many of us from walking those interminable circuits; and in a lot of cases, threatening the possibility of ever going back to them.

That should be a cause for celebration: it is Liberation, after all. But so many of us have become institutionalised, we can only respond with anxiety and fear.

Visit any Animal Rescue Shelter, and you'll see exactly the same kind of psychological and emotional response in other animals.

For people of our generation Slacks, for most of our lives, we have had it drilled into us that, "There Is No Alternative". And many of us dutifully and completely accepted that. We have become afflicted by a kind of Mass Stockholm Syndrome, where we have conditioned ourselves to try and enjoy the torture we go through every day. There is plenty of testimony from the Concentration Camps and Gulags in the 20th Century to indicate that is how many survived those horrors.

You've enough work experience under your belt to recall how much of how many peoples' working lives were spent moaning and complaining about their work, their conditions, and their "rewards". Your role as a People Manager has almost certainly been based on the fact that you are a generally positive person, who can help motivate and inspire others - because fuck, do they *NEED* motivating and inspiring!

If I'm feeling like torturing people in a Corporate Setting, I like to ask them how far the job they are doing now is from the job they dreamed of doing when they were young.

All those kids who wanted to be astronauts, train-drivers, ballet-dancers and sweet-shop owners... I've never heard a one of the adults they became say that they are now doing the job they dreamed of doing. They just sort of "fell into it"...

And here's the Thing:

It isn't about people doing jobs that make them happy: it is about them spending a third of their lives doing something they personally find Meaningful.

[quote]Humans are wired to seek meaning in everything we do, whether we're sitting in an office, hiking in the mountains, or eating dinner with the family. Passion for a cause fuels energy, intelligence, and creativity. Brain chemistry is in part responsible: Researchers have shown that the positive emotions aroused by work we see as worthwhile enable us to be smarter, more innovative, and more adaptable. For example, the Duke psychology professor Dan Ariely and colleagues conducted a study in which participants were paid to build Lego models, some of which were dismantled in front of them upon completion. People whose creations were preserved made, on average, 50% more Lego models than those whose models were destroyed, despite identical monetary incentives. We give more of ourselves when we have an impact-even if it's a small one.

Management scholars have shown that the same holds true on the job: Purpose is a powerful driver of workplace happiness. Yet too often we fail to tap this wellspring of motivation. As was true for Sharon and Marcus, it's easy to lose sight of what we value and ignore the aspects of work that matter to us, especially if we struggle with dysfunctional organizations, bad bosses, and stress. And if that happens, disengagement is just around the corner. In the absence of meaning, we have no reason to give our all.

Each of us finds meaning and purpose in work differently, but in my experience with people from all over the globe and in all professions, I've seen some similarities: We want to fight for a cause we care about. We want to create and innovate. We want to fix problems and improve our workplaces. We want to learn and grow. And, as studies have shown, meaningful work is as possible and important for a janitor or a middle manager as it is for a CEO.[/quote] - https://hbr.org/2017/09/happiness-traps

So let's talk about "the Here and Now".

In the context we are currently discussing, there are three possible outcomes:

1) (Most) Everything goes back to the way it was

2) Everything becomes massively, radically and very positively different to the way it used to be

3) An outcome somewhere between those two.

Few people (including Yours Truly  B-) ) are betting on the second outcome. It seems more than they can hope for. An impossible dream.

And when you think about, only a similarly few people believe that the first outcome is still a possibility.

Which means that almost Everyone is slowly accepting that Things Are Going To Be Different.

That should be a Good Thing, right? Most people weren't particularly enjoying the struggles of The Way It Was... Now that it looks like that's all over, with no way back, we ought to be feeling relieved...

But no. Because... We can't be sure What Happens Next.

And for many people, hoping that Tomorrow will be much the same as Today (hopefully with some slight improvement), is the best they've ever been able to hope for. Because how often have we been told, "Don't get your hopes up!"?

So that's the Situation many people now find themselves in: they knew they weren't particularly enjoying The Way Things Were, but at least they Knew Where They Stood... (Sort of... Mostly... Well, at least a bit...)

But now they have little or no idea what to expect. Change is upon them, and their Future has suddenly become a *WHOLE* lot less certain.

No wonder they are feeling anxious!

So how can we help them?

By getting them to really think about what it is they actually want to do with their Lives. To think about how fulfilled they actually were by what they are now afraid of losing.

But most of all: to help them understand that they Are Not Alone.

Post-War Western Culture has atomised the Individual. Post-War Communist Culture subordinated the Individual to a Group Identity. Neither approach has produced the outcomes promised.

And it should be clear that the reason for these failures is because they were all driven by a "Top Down" approach. In neither Western Capitalist or Asian Communist Societies were the mass of Individuals actually asked to contribute to the processes of Social Development. Instead, they were all conditioned or coerced to follow the ideologies promoted by a powerful centre of elites.

But that is understandable. Humanity in the 20th Century lacked the technological and social sophistication to effectively aggregate the broad spectrums of human opinions and desires, into workable social policies. It was more practical to reduce everything to binary alternatives, and promote one approach while demonising "the other".

(How'd that work out for us all?)

But in the 21st Century, Human Society *DOES* now have the facilities with which it can orchestrate and harmonise the priorities of different individuals. In such a way that the Individual is not subordinated to the Community; and the Community is not sacrificed to Individualism.

All that is required as a Foundation to enable that to happen, is the guaranteeing of all basic human necessities to all Human Beings.

Just the necessities mind: not Everything.

Communism failed because it was both over-centralised and over-ambitious; and Consumerism has failed, because it destroyed the fabric of Society that held us all together.

The vast majority of Humans on this Planet have nothing to lose. Consequently, they enjoy much greater Freedom than those of us who think we do have something to lose.

A small minority of Humans on this Planet - those who think they do have something to lose - are still bound to the systems that conditioned them to be "Good Slaves".

And a microscopic "elite" of Humans on this Planet fully understand that if they don't keep those systems functioning, they stand a very real chance of losing their actual heads (it's happened many times before...).

The Challenge now for people of our demographic Slacks, is to make a Choice. An *ACTUAL* Choice - with their Lives:

Continue to wish for a return to a mostly unfulfilling Life - with all the necessary addictions required to help us get through it - in support of the System Controllers keen to remain, uh, "capitated"...

Or to recognise that Humanity has now reached the Point where it has One Last Chance to alter its Long-Term Prospects for the better, and to Act in accordance with that recognition.

Life *IS* going to be shit, if we are somehow successful in our determination to return things to The Way They Were. If we continue to prioritise our individual Short-Term prospects over our Collective Long-Term Future.

So, if we know that Life is going to be even more of a struggle than it was: what do we actually have to lose by taking a Leap of Faith?

Anybody who is currently feeling anxious and afraid about their immediate future prospects is going to continue to feel like that for a while to come. They're torturing themselves. They're putting their mental well-being, and the vitality of their families and friends in the hands of a tiny group of corrupt power-seekers, who have demonstrably fucked things up, and will and can only continue to do so.

In recent months, the #MeToo, #BlackLivesMatter and Extinction Rebellion Movements have shown the rest of us how to come together without leaders or even particularly defined objectives, in order to reject The Way Things Are, and in defiance of the injunction that "There Is No Alternative".

There are many, *MANY* Alternatives. And not a single one of them will suffice to improve Humanity's Long-Term prospects.

But when we all Stand Up As Individuals Together...

Well, you only have to ask yourself:

Could the outcome be any worse than we are currently facing?

Mother Nature has given us all the faculties and opportunities to achieve our Liberation.

We'd be Fools not to use them.