[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]So where is the legislation or proposals going after those 146,000 families of the super-duper-mega rich like Soros and Buffet?[/color][/quote]

What, you mean legislation going after the super-duper-mega donators to political campaigns..?

Hmm... I wonder?

[quote=Foota21178388][color=red]Instead, Obama and the Democrats have proposed both in the campaign and over the last few years that they would like to raise the taxes on those [b]households[/b] making more than $250,000/year.  Keep in mind those aren't individuals, your average public school teacher and firefighter can make nearly that amount of money with combined household income and benefits.[/color][/quote]

What Obama and the Democrats proposed during the campaign, and what they've actually done over the last two years, are very different, as I'm sure you know Foota.

Obama extended Bush's tax cuts. Obama did *NOT* regulate the banks and the banking practices that caused the crash in 2008. Obama and the Democrats are, in fact, just as in thrall to Wall Street and the Super-Duper-Mega Wealthy as the Republican Party.

I've tried so many times to get you to see through the pseudo-ideological, manufactured partisanship of the Political System Foota. One of these days, the Fog has to clear for you.

This isn't an ideological issue about taxation. Income tax is a pernicious form of taxation because, whichever way you cut it, and whatever rate you set it at, it is a disincentive to work.

And just as having to hand over large portions of one's income to a government one doesn't particularly appreciate creates animosity, so too would watching that government redistribute those tax receipts to those people who don't feel so much like working.

So don't preach to the converted Foota. I don't think that there is a single person here advocating the *GENERAL* raising of income taxes. Only those who are considering raising taxes for the uber-wealthy, because they can't think of any other way to address the issue of wealth inequality.

Equally, I don't think that there is anyone here, with the possible exception of Manus (because it is an aspect of his ideology), who is advocating taking money from those who work hard, and giving it to those who don't.

It is a much wider debate, and it needs looking at from a much wider perspective.

There is an idyllic picture painted by those who (bafflingly) defend the right of the super-duper wealthy to remain so, that actually, those people are so wealthy because they work so damn hard, or because they are so mind-meltingly clever.

And the reverse-side of that picture is that there are so many people who are in deep poverty because they are idle, work-shy good-for-nothings, who expect everything handed to them on a plate.

But this is all an Illusion.

Fact is that the uber-wealthy continue to be uber-wealthy and to become even more uber-wealthy, solely because they *ARE* uber-wealthy.

They don't need to work hard: very few of the uber-wealthy do work hard. Instead, they make their *MONEY* work hard for them. They have a lot of money, and they can pay other people to make all that money work very hard for them.

Why do you think we associate extreme wealth with extreme luxury? Why is extreme luxury synonymous with extreme recreation? Huge yachts, expensive parties, private tropical islands, the best food, clothing and housing that money can buy.

They really aren't working very hard at all Foota. They don't need to. They already have money. In fact, they have so much money, that they can't even spend all of the *INTEREST* they earn every day on their capital, let alone touching the capital.

You put just two million dollars in the safest investment scheme you can, and you're still guaranteed a return of 5%. That's an annual income of $100,000. And that puts you in the top 1% of income earners in America, and you don't even have to get out of bed.

Now if you're sitting on a nest egg of two *HUNDRED* million dollars, and now your annual income is $10,000,000. Again, without getting out of bed, *AND* without even thinking about riskier investments that would give you a return greater than 5%.

The only hard work, is figuring out how to spend $10,000,000 a year. But if you don't manage it, then the surplus goes into your capital fund, and next year, your income is even higher.

Again: without lifting a finger.

Alright, now flip the picture over, and let's take a look at those people working 2 or 3 jobs, with around a week's paid vacation a year, praying that they don't get taken sick whilst they're working their asses off.

You saying that fighting for your survival every day isn't hard work? You saying that a single mother who leaves her kids with their grandmother, while she works a shitty waitressing job, or takes even more shit working in a call-centre, isn't working hard?

Oh, I get it: she's not very clever. If she was clever, she'd figure a way out of her situation. If she was smart, she'd figure out how to invest some of the spare cash she can scrape together, and eventually get herself some of that Unearned Income she keeps hearing about.

She's really only got herself to blame, for being so stoopid.

Or what about that young guy who just got rejected by the Army? Somewhat bright, somewhat talented, certainly not lacking in confidence: but he can't get a job because no-one wants anyone without experience. And he can't get the experience, because no-one will give him a job.

Oh, that's okay, he just needs to invent a cold-fusion reactor in his garage, and he'll be laughing all the way to the bank.

No, the problem really isn't that people aren't willing to work hard for a decent reward. And it certainly isn't the problems of penalising those mega-wealthy powerhouses who work so industriously and diligently for the Common Good.

The Problem is that we have a Socio-Economic-Political System that is as intertwined and inter-connected as it is wholly corrupt and dysfunctional.

Actually, most people don't want to be super-wealthy. Most people don't want to be spending obscene amounts of money on ridiculous statements of status, whilst other human beings around the World are starving to death. Most people don't want to become corrupted by the possession and trappings of extreme wealth.

What most people want is the opportunity and freedom to explore their own lives, to share as much Time as possible with the people that they Love, and *NOT* have to worry about where the next pay-check is coming from, and whether or not it will cover all the bills that need paying.

They just want Peace, Freedom and Opportunity.

You can't resolve this issue by increasing taxation of the Super-Rich - there is nothing Peaceful about taking something forcefully from someone else.

You do not resolve this issue by making people dependent on Government hand-outs - there is no Freedom to be found that way.

And you certainly do not resolve the issue with revolution - where opportunity exists only for the most violent.

You resolve the problem by recognising that, in the long term, *NO-ONE* benefits from the way things are now. You engage with people at all ends of the Socio-Economic-Political Spectrum. You invite Everyone to consider just how sustainable a deeply imbalanced and unequal Society really is. You ask Everyone if sheer material wealth, the possession of endlessly obsolete goods, and wholly unfettered consumption really is the scale on which Human Achievement should be measured.

And, I guess, fundamentally and most importantly, you ask the Question:

Aren't We All In This Together?

[face_peace]