[quote=Mullet post_id=22392 time=1731267959 user_id=58][color=#8000FF]So long as populism and anti-intellectualism are in style, there is little to no chance of improving anything.

I have a proposal that just might save democracy, which I am calling "Mulletocracy" until I come up with something better:

Our current system of "one vote equals one vote" doesn't make sense. A well-informed, sane vote should be worth much more than a dumbass or wackjob vote.

In my system, the process of voting must include (in addition to a valid photo ID  ;) ) :

a) a multiple choice questionnaire assessing the voter's grasp of important issues, and how the positions of candidates differ on these issues

b) a short psychiatric assessment to flag lunatics

c) a critical thinking test, to determine the voter's ability to think logically and make sound decisions based in reality

The vote will be applied a scaling factor based on the results of the tests.

For example:

Person A comes in to vote and answers the general knowledge questions correctly. He then passes the loony test and demonstrates competence in making a rational decision for some hypothetical scenarios. This person did well, so his vote get the full 1.0 factor * 1 vote = 1.0 votes.

Person B comes in well-prepared for the knowledge test but lets slip in the psych evaluation that she believes in "chem trails" or "flat earth". Her factor is automatically 0.0, meaning her vote counts as 0 votes.

Person C passes the first two tests but fails the logic test (see the video I posted earlier, if you haven't) so this counts as maybe half of a vote.

I know there's lots more to work out here, but it certainly can't be worse than what we are currently doing.

Thoughts?[/color]

[/quote]

Well, most importantly, what I *ALWAYS* think about these types of ideas:

It *CAN'T* be worse than what we are currently doing!

And:

Let's not make the Perfect the enemy of the Good.

Continuous Improvement (/Growth/Evolution) is what We Are All About.

I think your proposed Framework would certainly be an improvement on the current shit-shows we use to (s)elect our "Leaders".

However, I have always believed very strongly that the most sustainable, purposeful, and effective approach to governance of human societies will be found in a wide-scale decentralisation of authority.

The Human World, and the majority of "National" societies within it, are still using the outdated and clearly no-longer-effective Pyramid Framework of Governance.

Where "supreme executive authority" is vested in the person of a single individual.

The Human World these days is *FAR* more complex than it was a century ago, when the political institutions and constitutions we still use today were at their peak of Effectiveness. Human Society is far less deferential to "authority" figures (and institutions). It is inconceivable to imagine that responsibility for governing our World (and its societies) can be vested in a single individual (or single institution).

And policy decisions that emanate from a single individual (or single institution) are *ALWAYS* going to piss someone off (usually: *MANY* someones).

[url=https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federal_Council_(Switzerland)]The Swiss have figured out how to tackle this Challenge[/url].

[quote]The Federal Council (Switzerland) is the federal cabinet of the Swiss Confederation. Its seven members also serve as the collective Head of State and government of Switzerland. Since World War II, the Federal Council is by convention a permanent "grand coalition" government, composed of representatives of the country's major parties and language regions.[/quote]

The Swiss still get "One Person-One Vote", with no weighting applied to their individual votes based on the voter's ignorance or expertise in any particular subject matter.

What the Swiss do *NOT* get is: One Vote-One Person.

They get: One Vote-Seven People.

An odd number of individuals on any executive council is essential. No need to grant any single individual a "Casting Vote" as there can never be an evenly split decision from an odd number of individuals (unlike the unilateral decisions from a number of odd individuals that non-Swiss human beings have to endure...).

Furthermore, the Swiss Confederation is a, uh, Confederate, rather than a Federal Republic.

And the Swiss can only operate effectively with a Confederacy, because of the distinctive majority cultures of the citizens of Switzerland (the Swiss have *FOUR* "Official" languages, ffs! French, German, Italian, and Romansh! Each of them spoken in a different region!).

Switzerland has four distinct cultural groups; with all of the usual social, political, and ideological disagreements that every human society has; and a global reputation as a peaceful and neutral society, [url=https://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/business/how-switzerland-combines-a-passion-for-guns-with-safety/49115108]with heavily-armed citizens who do not routinely slaughter each other[/url].

(The Swiss also enjoy [url=https://www.eda.admin.ch/aboutswitzerland/en/home/politik-geschichte/politisches-system/direkte-demokratie.html]Direct Democracy[/url], excellent banking facilities, superbly-crafted watches, and chocolate.)

So whilst I am not saying that the Swiss Confederation practices a Perfect form of social governance for a human society; I *AM* saying that the way they are doing it is Good, and is being improved all the Time.

Now, there is another human society that we are all familiar with, which has similar qualities to the Swiss Confederation. Not least of all the number of firearms owned privately by its citizens, and also the (increasingly) distinct sense of separation evident among its people.

I recently identified that particular society as being comprised of at least three distinct groups: Red, Blue, and Purple.

I feel very strongly that a short-term solution to the domestic political collapse that is taking place in the United States today, would be to become a Confederated rather than a Federal Republic.

Red Americans can then get on with governing their own lives as they see fit; and Blue and Purple Americans will be able to do likewise.

Of course, I am referring here exclusively to governance of domestic matters for Americans: policies and decisions relating to Health, Energy, Education, Employment, Food, Shelter &c.

The days where the United States could attempt to try and govern the rest of the Human World are over. So no need for the members of the Confederation of North American States to waste Time and money arguing over which other country they should be destroying at any given moment.

No.

I think that substantially decentralising the way that the (dis-)United States is currently "governed" is the only way that particular human society can hope to continue growing and Evolving.

And so for the Human World as a Whole:

Decentralised societies governed by decentralised authorities.

Decentralise and distribute authority in *ALL* human societies, organisations, and enterprises, so that those individuals actually delivering policies are able to fine-tune their delivery processes and methods as they need to.

Every policy-setting/decision-making group needs to have a minimum of seven individuals on it; and in my experience, no more than eleven (or thirteen maybe, but some people get a bit weird about having thirteen people sat around the same table... [url=https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Last_Supper_%28Leonardo%29]I can't imagine why that is...[/url] :roll: ).

You know how it goes: two's company; three's a crowd; four's an irreconcilable argument; five's a guarantee of ineffectiveness (2 sets of 2 people trying to influence 1 person); and six is a foundation for all-out conflict.

Seven individuals seems to be the minimum viable number for effective governance of any collective activity; especially where they are meant to be representing different groups with often-widely different attitudes and approaches to what they feel needs doing, and how to get it done.

More than eleven (or thirteen), and you have sufficient numbers for factionalism and the paralysing feuds they generate within an organisation.

So:

Decentralise, distribute, and devolve governing authority as far as possible, using all of the wonderfully-capable Information Technology we have available to us (all) today.

If nothing else, it is a Change we can implement very easily.

And if it turns out that a Change to decentralised and distributed governance is not as effective as I currently believe it would be, then we can Change it again.

And keep Changing (evolving and developing) the systems we use until we discover systems that are more Effective and Purposeful for us.

Which is another tick in the "Plus" column for decentralised and distributed authority: we can simultaneously develop different systems in our own societies (howsoever we delineate them), in our own ways, until a System emerges from the plasma of Human societies that is Effective, Sustainable, and is seen by all-but-the-most-obtuse as actually Good, if not quite (and probably never can be) Perfect.

Or, we can all just immediately implement the same System that the Swiss are Effectively using today.

I mean, after all:

We hold these Truths to be self-evident:

All Human Beings are created equal.

They are endowed (by deity or deities unknown) with certain unalienable Rights.

That among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.

And that to secure these rights, governments are instituted among Human Beings, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed.

And really importantly:

That whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, *AND* to institute new governments.

These governments will (and must) lay their foundations on such principles and will organise their powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness.

Now, prudence indeed will dictate that governments long-established should not be changed for light and transient causes. And accordingly, all Experience hath shewn that Human Beings are more disposed to suffer, while negatives are sufferable, than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed. ( :roll: ).

But..!

When a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same Object evinces a design to reduce them under absolute Despotism...

Well..! It is then their right *AND* their duty, to throw off such governments, and to provide new Guards for their future security.

'k?

Humanity *REALLY* needs to Open-Source its governmental systems.

Sort of Now-ish, really.

:roll: