[quote=frrankosuave]Dammit Jim, I'm an engineer not a professional reader.  I lose attention after about 10 seconds and that is only 10% of your diatribe.  I am not sure if you are with me or against me.  Please summarize so that I don't yawn and get all googly eyed while you talk.

[/quote]

Sorry Franko - got carried away and streamed Consciousness all over the page... ;)

A breakdown of my previous post:

• I introduced the concept of Public Private Partnerships (PPP)

• I gave a brief History of Privatisation in the UK

• I explained the flaw in early Government sell-offs that exposed formerly Nationalised utilities to asset-stripping

• I explained what Asset Stripping is and how it works

• I explained what happened to British Rail

• I wrote about "Single Supplier Service Provision"; where there was no practical opportunity for true competition in service delivery

• I explained what Public Private Partnerships (PPP) are

• I gave an example of Private Finance Initiatives (PFI) in the British Education System

• I considered whether Health Service Provision allowed for competition in Service Delivery

• And I concluded that it did not.

(I'll edit my previous post to put in these sub-titles, if you fancy something to read next time you're taking a dump. :))

I based my conclusion on the idea that the purpose of a Health Service is to make people better; restore them to functioning order. There is a requirement for Health Service Providers to restore humans to normal, functioning health. There is no requirement for them to go beyond that.

Lifestyle coaching, nutritional, psychological and physical coaching are attempts to improve an already healthy person: facility for competition exists in the delivery of such coaching/"improving" services.

Individuals may choose to improve their diet, exercise regime, or mental condition, and if so, they can and will pay for this. But when a person gets sick: they just want to get better.

A Health Service Provider can either cure a person/restore them to good health; or they can't. This is the only thing that should concern a sick person, in a Civilised Society.

But in the United States, almost alone in the First World, when an American gets sick, they have to worry about whether or not they can [b]*AFFORD*[/b] to get the treatment they clearly need to get better. And its no good looking to their fellow Americans to help them out.

The situation in the U.S., as seen from Europe, is that millions and millions of American citizens are denied access to available Medical Care, because they can not afford to purchase it. And at the same time, medical doctors in America earn the same kind of money as people working in the Legal, Defence and Oil Industries.

Americans can't afford Healthcare because American Doctors and American Pharmaceutical companies insist on earning and charging as much money as possible, for saving other American's lives.

That is the situation that Europeans find repugnant.

[quote=frrankosuave]If a person is dumb enough to not buy some sort of health plan, or shop around for health services, then they don't deserve for some doctor to work on them for free.  Doctors have to eat and they don't have to eat what we (the public) tell them to eat either.

[/quote]

Doctors do not work for free in Europe.

In France and the UK, medical doctors earn the same salaries, whether they work for the Private or Public Sector (and they usually work for both).

Private Sector Healthcare provision in France and the UK is only available for non-emergency operations. If you have a medical emergency that requires immediate treatment, you will be treated by a doctor working for the Public Sector, in a Public Sector hospital, whether you have Private Medical Insurance or not.

Only when you are moved to recovery, or to post-operative care, would you transfer to a Private Sector ward (usually in the same Public Sector hospital as the A&E department).

Private Sector Health Insurance premiums raise three to four times more funds per potential patient, than the Public Sector can raise through National Insurance/Central Government Funding.  This because Private Sector Health Providers charge higher premiums than the Government.

Because of the higher premiums (that a Government dependent on votes could never charge), and because of the considerably smaller scope of individual Private Healthcare operations, the Private Sector is able to offer much better managed services: for secondary options and palliative care.

Public Private Partnerships now mean that if a Government could match the level of funding enjoyed by Private Healthcare Providers, they could (in tandem with their Private Sector Partners), provide exactly the same level of managed Healthcare.

But because of the opaque way that the National Health Service in the UK is funded by Central Government, this is a situation unlikely to happen soon.

In France, the opposite is the case. French workers see a separate "Health Tax" taken from their incomes; and the proceeds of that tax go directly and exclusively to the French Health Service (i.e. they are not diverted for other Government spending).

And the French have the best and freest Health Service in the World; a Health Service that is available free of charge to any visitor to France who might find themselves with a medical emergency.

[b]*AND*[/b] the French have the highest life expectancy of any Human Society: no coincidence that.

Simply: the French have figured out how to deliver Healthcare effectively; Everyone else should just copy them.

[quote=frrankosuave]Teach them to fish!

(& then let them eat cake)[/quote]

The French figured that one out too.

You have to feed "them" fish, while "they" are learning to fish.

Or "they" get mad. :)

Peace