[quote=SomeGuy[PCNC]][quote=Holyman][color=blue]Unfortunately SG, if nothing is done: the Entire System Collapses.

You've got "Capitalism for the Win" in your signature; but if we follow your advice and do nothing, then Capitalism loses. Wholly and completely.[/color][/quote]

[color=red]But it is the most necessary. Capitalism is not just an ideology but a way of doing things practically. Many things are cyclical in nature, a capitalist economy is no different. There are times where things must come down.[/color][/quote]

Capitalism is an Economic System SG, generally agreed to have been codified in the late 18th Century by Economic philosophers such as Adam Smith, John Stuart Mill and Jean-Baptiste Say.

What distinguishes Capitalism from other Economic Systems such as Feudalism and Communism, is that land, labour and capital are owned by private individuals or corporations.

That is all.

There are different forms of Capitalism, particularly [i]laissez-faire[/i] capitalism, considered by many to be "pure Capitalism". But there is no record or evidence that a Capitalist Economy has ever operated in Human History, entirely free of state interference or control. [i]Laissez-faire[/i] capitalism remains, to this day, an ideal, rather than a fully realised Economic System.

Apart from that ideal, Capitalist Economic Systems have been through several iterations, essentially starting with Merchant Capitalism (which began in the Islamic World in the 9th Century C.E. before spreading to Europe), moving through Industrial Capitalism (18th - 20th Centuries), before arriving at its current incarnation of Financial Capitalism at the beginning of the 21st Century.

In terms of its fundamental systemic foundations, Capitalism is no different to Communism or Feudalism. Money, commodities and produce flow through exactly the same primary, secondary and tertiary channels as with Feudalism and Communism. The distinction is that with Capitalism, land, labour, capital, raw materials, produce, manufactured goods and services are privately owned; as opposed to being owned by the State (Communism) or Crown (Feudalism).

Capitalist, Communist and Feudalistic Economic Systems are all prone to exactly the same cycles of surplus and deficit; and all three systems facilitate and promote inequality and instability at the various stages of these cycles.

[quote=SomeGuy[PCNC]][color=red]You may have heard the diametrically opposed theories to economics "Ball in a valley" and "Ball on a hill" short-hand for supply-side and demand-side economics respectively.

The economy (from what I have observed for the last 10 years but most recently over the last 5) reacts more like "Ball on a small hill in the middle of a giant valley". Think a number 3 put on its side.

The ball moves towards the "hill" meaning upward spiraling economies, and the "walls" of the valley representing corrective forces. The ball moves up the hill during up times and eventually flies off the hill. Then it heads into the wall where the ball then rolls down into the valley. Once at the bottom of the valley it returns to climbing the hill to do it all over again. Perfectly cyclical in practice. Up times meet with corrective forces meets with recessionary/depression periods meets economic bottoms meets recovery meets growth meets up times and so forth.

Graphically this would be represented as the infinity symbol (sideways 8) within a turned on its side number 3.

Where we are currently is smacking the wall and coming down. 1 year ago we were in the air but approaching the wall. (Up times)

We hit that wall in September. Now we are entering the valley. That's the nature of capitalist economies. What goes up must come down in time. Likewise what goes down will come up in time as well. It is never popular to advocate inaction, but it is most frequently the most practical.

Various factors such as government spending and policy or consumer confidence can speed up or slow down (thus in effect lengthening or shortening any effect on the hill or the valley) various portions of what I had described. Excessive spending can quickly accelerate a climb up the hill into the wall and the valley, whereas excessive spending can slow down moving across the valley back into the hill.

Over or under-regulation can do the same effect.

 [/color][/quote]

Alright...

I [b]*THINK*[/b] I can see where you're coming from. So let me see if I can put my response in the language that you have used.

The "Ball on a Hill" analogy is used to describe the motivational effects of Supply- and Demand-Side Economic Policies on the movement and velocity of the "Ball" (the Economy). What is argued is which type of policy has the most positive and stabilising effect on the movement of the "Ball" through the "geography" of the Economic System.

It's actually a largely redundant model to use for that argument, because what we see from the widest Macroeconomic perspective is that the [b]*ACTUAL*[/b] motivational effect upon the "Ball" appears to come from the dynamic swings [b]*BETWEEN*[/b] Supply- and Demand-Side Economic Policies.

For example, one can look at the United States and see that for the last Century or so, on roughly 20-30 year cycles, the U.S. Government has switched from Demand-Side policies to Supply-Side policies. The U.S. is now at the end of a 30 year cycle of Supply-Side policies, instituted by the Reagan Administration, and is most likely to now enter two or three decades of Demand-Side policies.

Point being that it seems apparent that rigid (and ideological) adherence to either Supply-Side or Demand-Side policies is unsustainable, since it historically produces financial inequality or stagnation, both of which lead to social and political instability.

But that is all largely besides the point, in terms of what I have been discussing SG.

To take your analogy:

If the "Ball" is the Economy, then the geography of the horizontal "3" is the foundational Economic System upon which the "Ball" moves through its (variously motivated) cycles.

The "Ball on a Hill" analogy is predicated on the notion that there is no retarding influence exerted on the "Ball" by the Economic "geography" of the horizontal "3"; that the surfaces over which the "Ball" moves are completely frictionless; that we have, in essence, Economic Perpetual Motion. A motion that takes the Economy/"Ball" through peaks and troughs, which are both good and bad; but which never ceases.

It is viewing the underlying Economic paradigm in this way that allows you (encourages you) to advocate "Doing Nothing".

You are working on the principle that the horizontal "3" - the Economic "hill", it's paired valleys and valley-walls - is fundamentally sound. But try to imagine what that model would look like if the "hills" and "valleys" of your Economic paradigm were studded with craters, pot-holes, swamps and coarse barren deserts.

How freely then would your Economic "Ball" roll through these "valleys" and up and down the various inclines?

Let's take it a stage further, and look at the increasingly rough and cratered surface of your "hills" and "valleys" as actually presaging a geographic catastrophe that will cause the whole horizontal "3" to collapse and turn to dust.

Within what "geography" would your Economic "Ball" then move?

This is the situation that we face today SG.

It is radioactive and entirely toxic debt that has corroded and corrupted your shining "hills" and "valleys". It is the metastasizing of cancerous debt that has brought the entire Global Economic Landscape to the point of geographic calamity.

Neither Supply- or Demand-Side Economic policies can have a positive or negative effect on the Economic "Ball", if there are no "hills" or "valleys" left within which it may roll.

A cavernous debt bubble has opened up beneath your "valleys", and your Economic "Ball" is rolling relentlessly towards that hole, and when it reaches it, will fall into a bottomless pit.

Nothing short of a complete transplant of the "Ball" to a completely different geography can save it.

Does that make my point any clearer SG?

[face_peace]