In Reply To #45

Well HM I doubt I would leave this country in protest.

What worries me is that Bush has absolutely nothing to loose by attacking Iran. His approval rating is around 28%. He is cannot run for re-election. The last 28% dead enders would probably be glad to see an attack on Iran (as is demonstrated by responses to this thread). He knows that if a Dem is elected after him the chance to attack will be gone.

Quite so; though it is worth noting that none of the Republican candidates for President have ruled out using nuclear weapons against Iran, when asked if they would. And neither have any of the serious contenders for the Democrat nomination.

Consider also why General Peter Pace has just been replaced as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Might it have anything to do with the following comments:

"They will be held accountable for the decisions they make. So they should in fact not obey the illegal and immoral orders to use weapons of mass destruction."

General Peter Pace, CNN With Wolf Blitzer, April 6, 2003

And:

"It is the absolute responsibility of everybody in uniform to disobey and order that is either illegal or immoral."

General Peter Pace, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, National Press Club, February 17, 2006

And also, consider: "National Security and Homeland Security Presidential Directive (NSPD-51 and HSPD-20)", issued this May 9th past.

http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2007/05/20070509-12.html

This directive allows President Bush to declare a "National Emergency" on his authority alone, without ratification by Congress. In such a "National Emergency", President Bush will have the power to suspend Presidential elections and extend his term indefinitely.

At the very least, shouldn't Americans be asking why such a fundamental change to the way their lives are governed, wasn't made more visible in the mainstream media?

And more sensibly, shouldn't they be asking why their elected representatives were not given the opportunity to approve or disapprove of such a fundamental Constitutional change?

Or, maybe all those detention camps that Halliburton is building across the United States, just don't look that inviting...

Peace