In Reply To #128

In Reply To #104

And you fall back on the hoary old tactic of trying to suggest that I (or anyone around here) am trying to "excuse" or defend Russia, France, China, Public-Enemy-of-the-Week.

Oh please Holyman, you most certainly are excusing these Totalitarians when you write:

... to concede that Saddam Hussein, and his Iraq, was entirely the Frankenstein's Monster creation of successive United States Governments?

How am I supposed to read "entirely" Holyman?  Is America 100%, 80%, 60%, 40%, 20% or 10% responsible for the  brutal Arab regime known as the Baathists?  What portion is Russia, China and France's responsibility, let alone any responsibility to the Sunni Iraqi slave masters themselves?  According to you, it is "entirely" America's fault.

Well, if by "it" you mean Saddam Hussein's regime: yes, America created that "Monster" in its entirety - 100%.

Calling Saddam Hussein a Ba'athist, is a bit like calling Joseph Stalin a Communist.

Stalin was a dictator every bit as Totalitarian and despotic as the Romanov's were: nothing Communist AT ALL about Stalin's ideology.

And Hussein was no more a Socialist either: just another Totalitarian dictator, using a collective (and allegedly) socialist ideology as a fig-leaf for his own brutal rise to tyrannical power.

Now, there are several interesting things about that chart you used to justify your claim that the USG was just one of many foreign governments enabling Saddam Hussein's [sic] regime.

The first and most obvious is that the chart covers the range 1973 - 1990.

Now, as we all know, during the 1970's, the Middle East was the place where the Cold War got really hot; with the United States and the Soviet Union battling for allegiances and satraps in that oil rich region.

And, throughout the 1970's, Iraq's sympathies lay with the Soviet Union, in counter-balance to Iran's status as an outpost of the U.S. Empire.

But in 1979, the U.S. "lost" Iran. And with the Soviet Union invading Afghanistan in 1980, the U.S. needed a new ally in the region.

Step forward Saddam Hussein, ex-CIA employee, and Minister for Internal Security in the Soviet-sympathising Iraqi regime. For the price of switching Iraq's allegiance to the United States, Saddam Hussein was supported by the United States (via the CIA) in the bloodless coup that brought him to power, and began his reign of terror over the Iraqi People.

So it's a little incongruous that you use a chart which includes the period of time before Saddam Hussein became dictator, to demonstrate how Saddam Hussein was supported primarily, by powers other than the United States. As though the arms supply treaty signed between the Soviet Union and Iraq in 1972, was anything more reprehensible or immoral than any of the similar arms supply treaties signed by the No. 1 Supplier of World Armaments, with other undesirable regimes throughout the World.

Another interesting thing about your chart, is that it doesn't include any dollar figures, just percentages of total arms purchases.

Here's the chart which does include dollar figures:

http://www.1person.com/images/armsalesiraq.jpg

What we see here is that the total value of CONVENTIONAL arms sales to Iraq, for the period 1973 - 1990, is: $43, 960, 000, 000, or, just shy of 44 billion dollars spent by Iraq on CONVENTIONAL arms.

And if we subtract the pre-1979 (pre-Saddam Hussein) sales, we arrive at the (rounded-up) figure:

35 billion dollars

(Spent by Saddam Hussein, on Conventional Weapons, during his time as President of Iraq, from 1979 - 1990)

Now what's interesting is just how much money the United States gave Saddam Hussein during that same period.

From my previous post:

"It was chiefly the U.S. government which furnished Iraq with economic aid. Iraq's War with Iran, and the consequent disruption in its oil export business, had caused the country to enter a deep debt. U.S. government economic assistance allowed Hussein to continue using resources for the War, which otherwise would have to have been diverted.

Between 1983 and 1990, Iraq received a total of $5 billion in export credit guarantees from the Commodity Credit Corporation, run by the Department of Agriculture.

In addition to agricultural credits, the U.S. also provided Hussein with other loans. In 1985, the U.S. Export-Import Bank extended more than $684 million in credits to Iraq to build an oil pipeline through Jordan - with the construction being undertaken by the Bechtel Corporation.

Then of course, there was the Iraq-Gate affair, where an Italian bank based in Atlanta was found (by the Federal Bureau of Investigation) to have funnelled a further $5 billion of U.S. tax-payer funded loans to Saddam Hussein.

So that's more than $10 billion of raw cash that we know for certain, the U.S. gave Iraq, in order for it spend on weapons, in deals we also know that U.S. helped set-up for Iraq.

I think what I find particularly galling about this specific piece of revisionism Foota, is that you're trying to revise a period of History, which occurred while you and I were both alive and informed about the World Situation.

You are asking me to forget the "Iraq-Gate" scandal; you're asking me to forget the whole broo-ha-ha around "Dual-Use" supplies to Iraq; you're asking me to forget how the U.S. Navy interceded in the Persian Gulf, when Iran was in danger of defeating Saddam Hussein; you're asking me to forget how the U.S. Navy shot down an Iranian civilian air-liner; you're asking me to forget the Matrix-Churchill scandal that all but brought down the Thatcher Government.

You are asking me to forget that the Reagan Administration removed Iraq from the State Department's list of State Sponsors of Terror, so that the USG could supply Saddam Hussein with that, uh, "Dual-Use" equipment, and of course, all that money.

You are asking me to forget that all other countries - INCLUDING THE SOVIET UNION - suspended Arms Sales to Iraq, from the moment it invaded Iran in 1980, until the end of 1982. The Soviet Union and other countries only resumed the supply of CONVENTIONAL weapons to Iraq, when it became clear that the U.S. was not going to allow any UNSC Resolutions to pass; and when it became clear with the U.S. removal of Iraq from the "State Sponsors of Terrorism" list, that the USG was going to ensure that Saddam Hussein had sufficient materiel to triumph over Iran.

Fundamentally, I guess, you are asking me to imagine that the Cold War wasn't raging in the 1980's; when a strong-arm Arab dictator (and Islamic extremists in Afghanistan, incidentally) was seen as infinitely more preferable than the Soviet Union, and those God-less Commies.

And you're asking me to forget that the US Government both possessed and exhibited virtually unqualified support for Saddam Hussein, during the Iran-Iraq War.

As a representative supporter of the USG, you're essentially shrugging your shoulders, saying "Who? Wha..? Me..? Never..!" to the charge that the United States Government was the chief sponsor and propagator of Saddam Hussein's criminal regime.

You're asking me to forget just how much the United States Government despised the Iranians who had booted it out from its stronghold in the Middle East.

You provide a spurious chart that details how Saddam Hussein spent $30 billion on Conventional weapons during the Iran-Iraq War, without including the fact that at least $10 billion of that money was provided to Hussein by the USG.

And, of course - and finally - you completely omit the rather relevant matter of Weapons of Mass Destruction, and the components necessary.

For the final time, I direct you to the report issued in 1994, by the US Senate Banking Committee, which details more than 70 shipments of components and precursors for biological and chemical weapons, from the US to Iraq, during the Iran-Iraq War.

Like it or not, facts matter Holyman.  You have to base your "reason" and "common sense" on something.  And it is quite apparent that you often try to use alternative histories to back up your world view.

You said it.

Peace