In Reply To #24

In Reply To #21

IF (and I acknowledge it's a big "if") a nuclear attack by the "No-Options-Off-The-Table" Bush Administration did take place (and any proxy attack by Israel would be a U.S. attack), what WOULD Americans do the day after?

Well since you brought it up HM what would you suggest we do?

Well, far be it from me to plant any suggestions... ;-)

But this is what I would do if the United Kingdom used a nuclear weapon against a non-nuclear armed country that posed no threat to it:

I would renounce my citizenship, immediately stop paying all taxes, and leave the country: I'd emigrate either to France or the Republic of Ireland.

Once outside of the society I was born into, I would do everything I could to encourage other British citizens to do similar.

I don't think I'd need to do anything to "Bring Down the Government", because that is something the British Government would achieve itself, if it used (or possibly even supported the use of) nuclear weapons against a non-nuclear armed country.

Transposing that to the United States, I'd do exactly the same; but clearly Canada would be the ideal place to emigrate to, for disgusted and disaffected American citizens.

I think it would be morally correct that the Union of North American States would and should be broken up, if the U.S. goes ahead and does to Iran, precisely what it is claiming that Iran is going to do to Israel at the earliest possible opportunity.

EMPHASIS: I really don't think that the U.S. will use nuclear weapons against Iran; nor do I think that it will allow Israel to do so either.

But I have to take into account the repeated declarations of the Bush Administration that "No options are 'off-the-table'"; and the fact that the Administration has changed U.S. nuclear doctrine to permit pre-emptive nuclear strikes against non-nuclear nations.

In Reply To #25

In Reply To #23

Iran has the right to obtain nuclear power.

This is not about nuclear power but about the nuclear weaponry for which they NO right to possess according the Treaty in the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.

You mean:

"This is about the nuclear weaponry [that Iran has voluntarily forgone the right to possess, and which there is ABSOLUTELY NO EVIDENCE WHATSOEVER that Iran is trying to develop (despite it being the most sensible course of action for the Iranian Government, given the Iraq/North Korea example)]."

Or, can you produce ANY EVIDENCE AT ALL that Iran is pursuing a Nuclear Weapons Programme?

If you can't, you really ought to acknowledge that fact.

You know: The TRUTH is very important and all that.

Iran has signed away the right to obtain nuclear weaponry (unlike Pakistan and Israel).

Does forfeiting the right to obtain nuclear weaponry prevent the physical acquisition of Nuclear Weaponry or the desire to seek such weapons?

Nope.

Does the complete absence of evidence of a nuclear weapons programme - despite Iran's submitting to the most intrusive and comprehensive IAEA inspections in the History of the NNPT - suggest that Iran has no nuclear weapons programme?

As I seem to recall, Saddam had also "signed away the right to obtain nuclear weaponry" and yet he was actively engaged in acquiring them at one time or another.

And I seem to recall the Bush Administration adamantly claiming that Iraq had a functioning nuclear weapons programme ("Smoking Gun = Mushroom Cloud"; "45 minutes..." etc.).

Did Iraq have an active nuclear weapons programme in 2002/2003?

Don't you think it would be the ultimate ignominy for the Bush Administration, if it turns out that all its propaganda...sorry...claims about Iran turn out to be 100% true - i.e. Iran gets nuclear weapons in the next couple of years and IMMEDIATELY launches a strike against Israel - and yet no action is taken by the International Community because nobody believes America anymore?

'Cos the Boy Bush Cried "Wolf!" too often.

Even the IAEA states that Iran has violated safeguard agreements regarding IAEA statutes.

That's true:

http://www.iaea.org/Publications/Documents/Board/2007/gov2007-07.pdf

But the IAEA has also repeatedly stated (including within the above document), that there is NO EVIDENCE WHATSOEVER of an Iranian Nuclear Weapons Programme; though it also acknowledges - as you should - that it is impossible to prove a negative: that Iran definitely does NOT have a Nuclear Weapons Programme.

You would have us believe Iran is seeking to generate electricity but you fail to mention their actions thus far which suggest anything but.

That is because I am completely unaware of any actions on Iran's part that suggests its nuclear programme is for anything other than civilian energy production.

Perhaps you could provide me - and the IAEA, UN and USG - with examples of the actions that suggest Iran IS developing a Nuclear Weapons Programme.

Japan is a NUCLEAR power who lacks nuclear weaponry and she certainly has not behaved as recklessly or secretly in this regard as Iran has.

Specious argument: Japan has not been repeatedly threatened by the United States or Israel.

Japan's neighbour North Korea, on the other hand, would be a much better comparison.

But simply comparing Iran to the Hermit Kingdom on the Korean Peninsular still doesn't really work, 'cos it doesn't factor in the United States' unquenchable desire for oil.

Understand, I'm not saying that Iran definitely does not have a nuclear weapons programme - even *I* can't prove a negative. What I am saying is that there is absolutely no proof that it is. And the basis of civilised justice demands that we progress on the basis of "Innocent Until Proven Guilty".

(And please don't try to recycle the "Smoking Gun-Mushroom Cloud" propaganda: it didn't work first time around; and it isn't going to work this time around either.)

I'd have thought the Bush Administration would have learned that lesson by now...

Iran is considered a "Terrorist State" only by the United States & Israel; for its support of Hezbollah (only considered a terrorist organisation by the U.S., Israel, and, uh, Canada) and Palestinian liberation organisations (the United States is currently, actively and openly, supporting and funding anti-government groups in Iran, which will undoubtedly use terroristic methods).

You forgot to mention that little thing where Iran invaded sovereign American soil and kidnapped American citizens.

I didn't mention the Iranian revolutionary assault on the U.S. Embassy in Tehran, in 1979 (ffs), because it is irrelevant.

How relevant to the current situation do you consider Operation Ajax to be? 'Cos you've so far failed to mention that the American and British Governments brought down the democratically elected government of Prime Minister Mohammad Mossadegh and propped up and supported the Dictatorial regime of the Shah, until it was overthrown by the Islamic Revolution in 1979.

I would have thought that destabilising an entire country with a coup d'etat, running it as a Satrapcy, and effectively holding the entire country hostage for a quarter of a century, is more egregious than a handful of armed students over-running the embassy of the country that had been dominating Iranian affairs for 25 years.

The U.S. Embassy was only sovereign American soil for as long as the Iranian people desired diplomatic relations with the United States. With no diplomatic arrangements in place, the U.S. Embassy in Iran reverted to Iranian territory.

Where is the sovereign territory of Iran located in the United States?

The Shia Iranian Government is not trying to destroy the Shi'ite majority Government of Iraq.

Who made that claim?  I merely stated that Coalition forces have linked the Iranian Government to terrorists organizations working in Iraq.

Oh, I'm sorry, I misunderstood. My apologies.

You wrote:

I mean, doesn't Iran, a well established Terrorist state with ties to terrorist organizations whose stated existence and purpose is the whole-sale slaughter of various pieces of the human race, who has proven links to terrorists currently seeking to destroy the fledgling nation of Iraq, who sits atop one of the largest reserves of crude in the world have the right to obtain nuclear power and or weaponry?

Sorry, I read that as your saying that Iran is supporting "terrorists [sic]" currently seeking to destroy the fledgling nation of Iraq.

My mistake.

The United States of America has more links to non-state, paramilitary organisations using terroristic methods than Iran.

Your point?  Are you suggesting the fact that the United States of America, a nation with obligations that span the globe and treaties in place with just about every nation on earth has to rely on alternative means to accomplish certain goals is the moral equivalent to Iran supporting and supplying an organization whose STATED purpose is the whole-sale slaughter of innocents?

No, I'm suggesting that the United States of America uses EXACTLY THE SAME MEANS to accomplish its goals AROUND THE WORLD, as it accuses Iran of doing in its own local region.

And I'm pointing out that this hypocrisy is the reason why the US is so isolated diplomatically and morally from the Rest of the Civilised World.

The United States of America is a greater threat to World Peace, and is far more likely to use its substantial nuclear arsenal, than Iran is likely to use its non-existent nuclear arsenal...

Now you are morally equating a nation who uses crowds of children to clear minefields with a World Power who has spent blood and treasure to keep other nations free around the globe?

And has killed, in the process, hundreds of thousands more children than Iran and all nations in the Arab Middle East have done.

No, I'm not morally equating the U.S. with Iran.

The United States is far more morally repugnant and reprehensible than Iran.

Right....

Iran is a far greater threat to World Peace and the existence of Israel than the United States and is more likely to use a Nuclear Weapon they develop or purchase illegally in a conflict than the United States.

As you and your fellow ideologues are want to remind us:

Israel alone could turn the entire nation of Iran to glass.

Throw the United States' arsenals and propensity to project military power unilaterally and illegally around the World, and it really begs the question:

Why are you and the Bush Administration so frightened of Iran?

And why did the Bush Administration not give the security guarantees that Iran, the EU, Russia and China asked for (Iran), in exchange for Iran's complete suspension of its nuclear programme?

Surely that would have resolved this whole issue.

In Reply To #36

You missed my point; I only meant watch a nation build up an illegal armament.  Anyone could have stopped Germany and you'd think that after the war to end all wars someone would have stepped up to disarm a potentially huge threat.  You'd think after seeing what the bombs did at Hiroshima and Nagasaki someone will step up and disarm potential nuclear threat.

I think that was the purpose of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.

What really baffles me about the situation we are discussing, can be summed up in a single word:

Pakistan.

Pakistan is a nuclear-armed country.

Pakistan is run by a military dictatorship that increasingly resembles the government-under-siege situations we see in Afghanistan and Iraq.

Pakistan is a much poorer nation than Iran (no oil); much less developed - less "Westernised"; and far more sympathetic to Sunni extremist movements than Iran.

Pakistani officials have been caught red-handed selling nuclear weapon know-how to countries the World would really rather didn't have nuclear weapons.

And Pakistan is the forward edge battle area for the resurgent Taliban, know giving US and NATO forces such a hard time in Afghanistan.

By what manner of threat assessment is Iran seen as a greater threat to World Peace and stability, than Pakistan?

In Reply To #37

Holyman - your author is paranoid.  We will not strike Iran first.  Certainly not with nukes.

That is what I believe also, and I think what the author suggests as most likely too.

The purpose of his essay - and the reason I posted it - was to highlight the disconnect between the Bush Administration and the American People.

If the United States will not use nukes against Iran - or allow Israel to do so - why change its nuclear doctrine to allow just that? Why not rule out the use of nuclear weapons, since maintaining that their use is "Not off the table", is the chief reason why the Rest of the Civilised World won't support the U.S. in its attempts to bend Iran to its will.

In Reply To #39

BTW Holyman, you say there is "NO EVIDENCE" Iran is building weapons, but there is no good faith effort by them to avoid people wondering what they're up to, either. It seems to me they kind of like it that way; it's like, all Defiant and stuff.

It is a lesson they learned from Israel: deliberate ambiguity.

Let me emphasise again: I do not know whether Iran is currently developing nuclear weapons or not.

I have to say, if I was in Iran's position, I absolutely definitely would be trying to develop nuclear weapons, to follow the North Korean example.

The deterrent effect of nuclear weapons is not in question.

What I am saying is that despite the most intrusive IAEA inspections undergone by any NNPT signatory, no evidence at all has been produced for an Iranian nuclear weapons programme.

The fact that in 2005, Iran offered complete transparency of its nuclear programme, in exchange for security guarantees from the United States - an offer the US flat-out rejected - suggests that they really do not have anything to hide.

ONLY the United States is suggesting that Iran is a threat to the World or its neighbours.

It is EXACTLY the same situation we witnessed in the run-up to the Invasion of Iraq.

Just how easily fooled are the American people?

Peace