[quote=SomeGuy[PCNC]][color=red]The answer to fixing the economy is right in front of their faces (let the market correct) and yet they refuse to see it![/color][/quote]

As you and I have discussed in this thread SG, simply "letting the market correct" is not an option.

That was the Bush Administration's attitude throughout its two-terms, and is precisely the (Government) attitude that created this mess.

If you "let the market correct" more than a quadrillion dollars worth of toxic derivatives, then "The Market" correction will be to bankrupt every individual, bank, corporation and nation on the Planet.

Every home or property with the slightest amount of borrowing outstanding on it will be foreclosed upon, because National Central Banks will be forced (by the "Market Correction") to raise interest rates to stratospheric levels. Once redoubtable currencies - especially the U.S. Dollar - will become junk, with only currency fixed specifically to the value of a commodity like gold being capable of holding any value.

And there are no currencies of note that are still fixed to a gold standard.

So your "Market Correction" will see the end of Capitalism as we know it; and quite probably, a resulting end to Society as we know it.

That is, of course, unless you can explain to me just exactly how the "Market Correction" you think "is right in front of [our] faces", will work [b]*WITHOUT*[/b] destroying the entire Global Capitalist System.

Can you explain that to me SomeGuy?

Or are you just content to rip-off with sound-bites you're picking up from your programmers, which you don't really understand, because you'd rather turn this situation into some kind of partisan blame-game?

Obama's stimulus plan has failed to stimulate the Stock Markets, because it simply cannot work: it is nothing more than a band-aid intended to hold the Capitalist System together for just a little while longer, hopefully long enough for someone to come up with a longer-term solution.

It is about throwing money into a bottomless pit, in the hope that it may slightly cushion the impact, when we finally hit the bottom.

The Markets know this; financiers know this; the bankers know this; Economists know this; and the leading politicians know this.

This is why no-one ever anticipated that it would restore confidence to the Stock Markets overnight.

But your attempts to portray the current situation as a failure of the (slightly over a month-old) Obama Administration, rather than the result of eight years of Republican "Just Let the Market Sort It Out" Economic policy, is really just a rather pathetic illustration of how you are about nothing more than regurgitating the intellectually bereft talking points you pick up from the Fox News Channel.

I mean, maybe I'm wrong SG: but the onus is on you to illustrate and demonstrate that is the case.

You can't get away with just shouting, "Let the Markets Correct!", and hope that you'll be regarded as some kind of Economic Genius.

[face_peace]