[color=firebrick][quote=frrankosuave]Also, ask yourself this.  How many eye doctors/OBGYN/chiropracters/etc are in your range of acceptable travel to consider for treatment?  That is because of privatization, you have a choice.  Now, put that under governmental control.  You will have one of each and that will be good enough, like it or not.  Remember the lines in USSR for things like...Bread?  That's an example of governmental rationing of public good.[/quote][/color]

Not really.

It's actually an example of your using outdated propagandistic models of thought, to stereotype your view of the Modern World.

You are clearly not familiar with Public Private Partnerships (PPP) and Private Finance Initiatives (PFI) as a whole.

You mentioned that Government can't raise its own funds by selling services and even goods to the Public. Yet that is precisely the principle of the Institution of Government; and in fact, increasingly how it works in European Society.

The Theory of Privatisation of essential public utilities was advanced in the 1980's, on the idea that private, profit-making corporations were more efficient and effective than the lumbering bureaucracy of Nationalised service provision.

The reasoning went that the pursuit of personal profit encouraged greater efficiency and effectiveness, than the pursuit of mere Social Duty. Private Sector workers are more encouraged by the potential financial dividends available to them, as a result of increasing their own efficiency and effectiveness, than Public Sector workers. Because the Private Sector could earn more money, it would; because the Public Sector couldn't earn more money, it wouldn't.

This was the situation that many of the apparently most intelligent beings on Earth - Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan to name but two - were wrestling with in the 1980's.

Their solution was to sell [b]*EVERYTHING*[/b] previously run by the Public Sector, to the Private Sector (yes, including the Military Function).

But just before it was too late, around about the mid-1990's, governments (actually: soon-to-be-[b]*EX*[/b]-governments and about-to-be-governments) recognised the potential nightmare scenario they had created for themselves.

To encourage Private Sector investment in previously Public Sector activities, governments selling the contracts to provide these activities, had to create immensely favourable contractual conditions. The most favourable and undoubtedly essential condition in most utility and service sell-offs in the '80's and '90's was this:

That the divesting government would exercise little or no regulatory oversight over the newly Privatised utility or service sector.

In other words: once sold into private ownership, the new owners could decide how best to service their contractual obligations.

And since another encouraging condition was very lengthy franchise terms - usually around 30 years - this set everything up nicely for a complete breakdown of Society, when the inevitable happened.

Fortunately, such is the glacier-like rapidity with which things move in governments and politics, they'd only managed to sell-off so much stuff, before the inevitable began to happen to the stuff that they'd sold off first. For example, one of the concepts that most civil servants and politicians in Whitehall and Westminster hadn't hear of - or if they had, didn't care about - was the concept of Asset Stripping.

Every organisation has assets. Every corporation or company - at least in the pre-Internet Age - has assets that contribute to the worth of that corporation or company. Most commonly those assets will be retail stock, but also premises and equipment, and to a lesser extent, the facility to provide services, and existing contracts for those services.

The total value of all the assets of a company or corporation represent how much capital could be expected to be raised, if all assets were sold off or "liquidated" on the open market. The Market Capitalisation of a company or corporation is the total value of all the outstanding shares currently being publicly traded.

For example, a company may have a book value of say $1 million, which is the total value of all its assets that could be liquidated, plus any liquid assets it may already hold. That company, if traded on the Stock Market, may have shares outstanding to the value of say $100 million: 100 times more than the company's liquefiable assets.

This is because stocks and shares are priced on the promise of future value, not current value.

However, such promises can easily and quickly become worthless, and the share or stock price will fall correspondingly. A situation might arise where the Market Capitalisation of the company, based on share price, fell below the actual value of the company's liquefiable assets. And this is where the Asset Strippers start circling.

As soon as the company is weakened beyond a certain point - where the cost of purchasing a controlling interest in the company (> 50%) is less than the value of the liquefiable assets - then the Asset Strippers swoop down, and finish off the dying company, and pick its bones clean.

Now of course, one of the ways to depress the share price of your own company or corporation, is to ensure that whatever service or product your company sells, is complete shit. This will make people stop using your service, decreasing your revenues, and hammering your share price at the Stock Exchange (making you vulnerable to Asset Strippers).

And if your Market Capitalisation was already set pretty low to encourage investment (low enough to need even the Proletariat to buy shares to make it worthwhile), then you're already in vulture range.

And this is basically what happened when the British Government privatised the National Rail Infrastructure. In fact, by the end of it, the attempts to privatise British Rail have cost the British Taxpayer at least twice as much as it would have cost to maintain a Nationalised Rail Operation; and the British Rail Network is at least twice as shit as it would have been had British Rail continued to operate the entire System.

And there would undoubtedly have been fewer accidents on the British Rail Network.

However, what this very expensive lesson did teach the Blair/Brown Government was that out-and-out privatisation of essential utilities could never work in Single Supplier service provision.

Simply, in areas where only one logistical operation could feasibly provide a service, there is no necessity for competitive advantage.

Actually, that's not simple is it..?

It is not practical that you should have multiple gas or electricity feeds into your home. Therefore it is not possible for gas or electricity supplies to compete at the service delivery end. There is only a single gas main infrastructure in any residential area. But even if you did have multiple gas or electricity mains to choose from to power your home, on what basis do you make your choice?

Electricity is electricity: it is present, or it is not.

One expects a certain minimum safety standard where electricity provision is concerned, but once you're happy that your kids and pets aren't going to get electrocuted by the mains feed into your home, your requirements are pretty much defined for the service delivery of electricity into your home:

1. Must make electrical items work;

2. Must not kill or injure anything.

Get those two essentials right in the delivery of an effective electrical supply, and all you need to do is sit back and watch the numbers spin...

Maybe you could try and compete on electricity [i]generation![/i] But unfortunately the cheapest forms of generation are also the most anti-social: and that counts for a lot in the choices of the consumer (allegedly).

Otherwise: just keep those things working as you do.

In fact, the only way you could try to increase your profit, is by trying to do the same thing as cheaply as possible.

Unfortunately, there's only so far you can go with that, before you're in danger of breaching Requirement No. 2.

And plunging everyone suddenly into darkness is an action very likely to kill or injure something.

That was a bit simpler, wasn't it?

So clearly, you can't rely on the Noble Privateer Spirit of the Profit-Motivated Individual to improve service delivery in a Single Supplier Market; and clearly, you can't rely on a lumbering bureaucracy headed by cloistered politicians and civil servants to deliver anything but delay.

Well, that's where Public Private Partnership or PPP comes in.

The idea of PPP is that a suitable contract is negotiated between a government and Private Sector service delivery company or corporation. This contract contains clearly defined Service Level Agreements that are used as triggers for the renegotiation or cancellation of a Public-Private Contract.

Unfortunately, many of these PPP contracts are still advised on and created by organisations who have a vested interest in the continued flow of Public Sector funds into Private Sector hands. So contract conditions still favour the Private Sector.

What the British Government has found is that PPP and PFI works very well in service delivery markets that are not Single Supplier.

And obvious example of this is Education.

You [b]*CAN*[/b] have multiple schools servicing an individual residential are, and after a bit of a shaky start, the British Education System has begun to show improvements. Only continued Government insistence on the gathering of comparative performance statistics continues to hamper the growth of PPP schools and educational authorities.

The situation exists now where the British Government could offer tax credits for families with children educated outside of the State Sector. This would basically mean that British families could choose to pay for their child to be educated by the State [b]*OR*[/b] by the Private Sector.

The situation at the moment is that families that pay for a private education for their children [b]*AND*[/b] pay the British Government for an education their child will never receive.

But in Single Supplier services and markets, the only incentive that exists is to cut operating costs, and increase shareholder profit.

And it is immoral and impractical for a Private Sector organisation or Government to do that with essential and single-supplier social services and utilities.

Water supply; electricity and gas (energy) supply; social welfare; fixed-line mass transit; and maybe these days, telecommunications.

These are Single Supplier service delivery operations: there is no capacity or facility for competition.

As for Health Service Delivery...

Prudence dictates that as individuals, we should take responsibility for our own welfare, and our ability to look after our own welfare. This is something that occupies a lot of peoples' lives.

What happens if..?

If you get sick, there is only one thing you [b]*WANT*[/b] to happen to you. And that is To Get Better.

Whatever it takes.

In a Civilised Society, when a fellow human being falls sick, and they ask us to do "Whatever it takes" to restore them to well-being, or at least a sustainable equilibrium, our response should not be: "How much have you got?"

It is not possible for Medical Health Establishments to recover or return anyone beyond a minimum functionality to sustain life unaided; therefore it is not possible for Medical Healthcare organisation to compete on Service Delivery.

1. Must make human items work;

2. Must not kill or injure anything.

Long-term care is no different: Whatever It Takes.

Care for the Elderly is primarily a Social Issue, not a Medical one.

Clearly then, Healthcare exists in the category of essential services that can only responsibly be socially funded and operated.

Whatever It Takes.

Peace