Hmm...

Look, your response was of a reasonable tone SG, so it would be unfair - and not a little churlish - of me to respond to you in any other fashion.

As you and I have discussed before, the analogy of the "Horizontal 3" (Economic geography) only really relates to the ebb and flow of Economic fortunes within an Economic Structure that is in overall sound shape.

In other words, the movement of the "Ball", and the facility to observe, track and somewhat predict its movement within the "Horizontal 3", is entirely dependent on the integrity and stability of that "Horizontal 3" structure.

Try to extend your analogy and reasoning to imagine what would happen if that "Horizontal 3" began to shake incredibly violently; then began to spin around on a random and constantly changing axis; and finally disintegrated completely.

What then would happen to the "Ball"?

The current Global Economic situation is wholly without precedent.

For starters, the Economies of the World are inextricably linked and intertwined, in a way that simply wasn't possible with the communications and computing technology around at the end of the 1920's.

But more importantly, there has never been, in the entire History of Capitalism, the degree of debt (toxic or otherwise) that is currently deluging the World Economy.

And it is the interconnected nature of all the debt liabilities that makes it impossible to let one significant cog in the Global Economy fail, without it having enormously negative consequences on the rest of The Machine.

Without exception, every significant bank or insurance company in the World is wholly and completely insolvent at this moment in Time.

Banks are always insolvent anyway, so that in itself is not news. Banks will always lend more money than they actually hold in their capital reserves. They borrow money from Central Banks at a low interest rate, then lend it on to consumers and businesses at a higher rate, and pocket the difference. But prior to the deregulation of the last decade, Banks were always limited by National legislation and International conventions, with regards to how much they could "leverage" their capital base. Generally speaking, no commercial bank could have loans outstanding that amounted to more than about 10 times their own capital reserves.

This was how it was for a long time, and the banking system remained relatively sound.

But over the past 10 years, all banks have engaged in massive over-leveraging of their capital base, anything in the order from 30 to 100 times their capital base. They considered this to be an acceptable risk, because Central Bank interest rates were at historic lows, and there didn't appear to be any threat to the supply of cheap money that banks could count on. On top of this, the newly deregulated banking sector began to create all manner of complex securities and derivative instruments off the back of these debt foundations.

All of this activity bonded the various banks and insurance companies together, with increasingly toxic debt beginning to act like some fucked-up kind of Economic Krazy Glue.

So the situation that we are in now is that it's no longer really possible to see AIG, for example, as a separate business entity to say Goldman Sachs or Citigroup; they are effectively (and very nearly [b]*ACTUALLY*[/b]) a single Economic Organism.

Though many banks are very actually insolvent, they can justify describing themselves as "Not Bankrupt", because of the anticipated (and these days, largely theoretical) incomes they are owed from: loans that haven't yet gone bad; troubled assets and securities that haven't yet been accurately "Marked to Market", and which are still "Marked to Model"; and of course, the monies owing to them, and shortly to be owed to them, from Credit Default Swaps (amongst other OTC derivatives).

Now though this is all largely a pretence - because everyone knows that a lot more loans are going to go bad soon; most "assets" and securities are in fact liabilities and junk; and CDS contracts aren't worth the paper they are written on - it is a pretence that is (just about) holding the Whole System together: a wilful delusion necessary for collective survival.

But if you take out an insurance giant like AIG, which can still, (very) theoretically, honour its contractual obligations, then all of a sudden there can no longer be any pretence that monies that are due to banks from AIG can, theoretically, still be counted upon.

This in turn will cause at least 2 or 3 major banks to immediately go the way of Lehman Brothers and Bear Sterns. And on top of the monies that now wouldn't be forthcoming from AIG, there would also then be additional monies that would no longer be forthcoming from those major banks that just went bust.

And this would cause more banks and insurance companies (who are relying on the banks theoretical ability to pay the premiums they agreed to) to go bust... And so on, and so on, until every last corner of the Global Economy was utterly bankrupt.

This very nearly happened when Lehman Brothers was allowed to go bust; and until the Financial Wizards of the G20 Nations can figure out and agree upon a way to manage a controlled collapse and rebuilding programme, the Federal Reserve, U.S. Treasury, the Bank of England and the European Central Bank are going to do their damndest to try and make sure that such a collapsing domino effect is not kicked off.

So the short-term strategy is just to try and keep things held together with as many bandages as it takes, whilst a long-term solution is created.

At the moment, the long-term effect of allowing AIG to fail in the short-term, will be complete Global Economic Collapse, widespread social disorder, and quite probably the Lights of Humanity going out forever.

Whilst I am completely opposed to the bail-out programmes as constituted by the U.S., U.K. and European governments; I do understand completely that just allowing Financial and Insurance corporations to go bust...

...Is [b]*NOT*[/b] an option.

[face_peace]