I think it's fair to say that things are *ALREADY* completely unhinged.

It's just that the chasm is so deep, it is not yet possible to see the bottom that we are plunging towards.

My reading of what the politicians and financiers are saying is that they *ARE* fully aware of the nature of the situation; but daren't admit it publicly, less they cause a widespread panic and increase the rate of the plunge.

I don't flatter myself that I'm able to see what isn't apparent to those who wish to see.

Whilst I might have a certain faculty for or disposition towards understanding Economic data, reports and projections; all the information I'm getting - and largely repeating verbatim on =PBF= - comes from pretty reputable and unexcitable sources.

There is a quite substantial fringe of *VERY* hysterical and excitable doomsayers, who follow the same lines of reason that I do, but to an extreme (and to my mind, less certain) degree.

I can actually see that if Society gets through this episode largely unscathed, then in retrospect we'll all see it not only as a good thing, but as something that inevitably had to happen.

I think that there will come a point where the politicians and bankers will no longer be able to hide the true extent of the situation, or its implications for Humanity. If pressed, I'd say that we might just be able to manage to get through the next 2 or 3 years without losing at least a semblance of the normality we have become adjusted to. But I don't see how we can go much beyond that before the general populace becomes fully aware of just how rotten things are in the State of Denmark (as it were).

Our Economic Systems produce so many unexpected and unanticipated events, that on balance, it is probable that there are further shocks to come this year and next, which can only be of a greater magnitude that what have essentially been pre-tremors.

People still have a lot of confidence in politicians, believe it or not. Though it is fashionable to be cynical about politicians, humans are ultimately hopeful and optimistic people, and deep down, they feel so helpless themselves about Economic matters, that they fervently *WISH* it to be true that Society's livelihood is in safe hands.

It's interesting how on =PBF= we spend so much time passionately arguing about events that are, ultimately, only of tangential consequence to each of us; but when it comes to Economic matters that directly and negatively are affecting us right now, even the most opinionated of our Community's members are reluctant to really get to grips with matters that are having such a major impact on their lives, and the lives of their families.

There is a kind of resigned despondency that seems to make a lot of them shy away from getting to grips with the prevailing Economic paradigm; and I don't flatter myself that it is because they are too wary of engaging with me on a topic upon which I seem to have such a relatively strong command.

I really do feel that there is a genuine and palpable fear that is making a lot of people bury their heads in the sand, hoping that this is just another cyclical downturn that will pass, and Life will return to "normal" (whatever that is).

But if I'm talking about these matters in the way that I do, on a Forum like ours, then there are definitely many others doing likewise. I think there will come a point where a sufficient critical mass of people will be able to grasp the severity and magnitude of the problem, and also recognise that the creation and implementation of a solution is an activity that is going to have to transcend all the existing barriers of national, ethnic and cultural differences.

If it is something that we can do voluntarily, collectively, Peacefully, then that will be a really, really good thing.

But I'm fairly certain that if we don't do it that way, then there will come a point fairly soon where we will have to do it involuntarily, and perhaps that will mean we do it less Peacefully.

But either way, I don't see a way that we will get away without doing anything.

[face_peace]