[quote=25thSoldierSelect][color=green]Alright, makes sense to me. Thanks as always for your insight. I was hoping that maybe those concerned with making this incredible debt could simply say 'Eh, never happened' take their losses (real that is) and get back to being restrained sharks. I can see now that that will not happen because the debt money is actually real, in the sense that the ones banking on it had every intention of collecting. Maybe some still think they can, in a crazy, delusional way.

Seems to me that this latter stage of capitilism is not a good thing, never was, and if there is a new economy it should focus solely on tangable things. Things like work for instance. To me that should be the sole basis for currency. You put in the effort to build or think something through in order to create something that is tangable, actually worth something. In return you get to purchase other work through an agreed upon currency. Simple and to the point.

Something for nothing, thats what this is all about. Its human nature to take and not have to work for it, as long as its okay to do so without repercussions. The cookie jar was open and there was nobody around to slap your hand if you wanted one, two, as many as you could cram your face with. What a shame.  [/color][/quote]

That's about the strength of it.

Actually, the idea of resetting a whole Economy is not unusual or unprecedented.

It was fairly common practice in the Classical World that when a new Roman Emperor or Egyptian Pharaoh came to power, there would be a moratorium on existing debts and literally, the slates would be wiped clean.

The problem that we currently have is the scope and complexity today of what is, to all intents and purposes, a single Global Economic System.

Furthermore, in days of yore, debts could be wiped clean because individual's worth was stored in fixed, tangible assets: either property, commodities or precious metals. Whereas today, people's net worth is frequently tied up in financial derivatives and options that are tied to the same financial structures as the debt markets.

The problem then is that as many people as there are who have notional debts, tied to nothing less abstract than compound interest; there are many people who also have [b]*NOTIONAL WEALTH*[/b], that is, money that is tied up in investment stocks, financial derivatives and funds, and abstract of the interest [b]*THEY*[/b] earn from their cash savings.

If you've read much of this thread and others, you'll know how much indignation and opposition there is at the prospect of foolhardy and feckless individuals being absolved of their debts; couple that with a reckoning that those more responsible people who saved will have their savings wiped out, and you can say why there is so much tacit support for maintaining the Economic state of play the supports this monstrous debt bubble that has been created.

Personally, I think it is appropriate that we re-visit, re-design and re-boot our Global Economic System. Our existing Economic "Software" Systems are well out-of-date, and bugged by a function that systemically creates destructive and destabilising debt.

I think we [b]*DO*[/b] need to re-assess our social priorities when planning and preparing for our new Economic System. Our current priorities see those whose activities contribute nothing to Society beyond an incredibly dangerous and destabilising influence - Bankers - earn the highest rewards; whilst those who make the most positive social contributions - teachers, nurses, law enforcement officials, street cleaners etc. - are rewarded the least.

This isn't a recipe for Communism, btw. As I wrote previously, Communism is just Capitalism with slightly different priorities. Attempts to control billions of people's actions and priorities must necessarily lead to Totalitarian Government.

And that's a bad thing.

But I think we can first separate human activity between direct needs, and the indirect "need" of a desire for luxury and comfort.

There is clearly a difference between the provision of a clean and healthy water supply; and the provision of unclean and filthy pornography. The former then is something that really ought to be managed centrally and socially; whilst the latter is a luxury that can and should only ever be supplied for profit, according to Free Market principles.

Healthcare is something that it is generally agreed (outside the U.S. at least) that citizens should be able to look to the State to manage provision of; whilst luxury sports cars is a supply clearly best provisioned by Private Enterprise.

Whilst we're about it, I think we ought also to look at a New Economy that is based upon Sustainability and a respect for our Environment.

Wherever we might stand on the various Ecological debates, it is clear that an Economic System that relies on military control and domination of areas of natural resources is unsustainable; and activity that creates endless waste is just as temporary, in the long-term.

Thing is, there are already plenty of suggestions for alternative Economic Systems, which have been produced by far more intelligent Economic minds than I. The issue is that we first need to agree to lay to rest this old, clapped-out, clearly unworkable Economic System that is evidently in its final stage of terminal decline.

But whilst the people who rely upon the Economic [i]status quo[/i] for their own positions of power and authority are tasked with producing a solution to the problems (that they have created...), new alternative Economic Systems are a long way off.

[face_peace]