In Reply To #90

Honestly Holyman, why would you even attempt to make such allegations without backing it up with sources?  I would not waste your time by simply cutting and pasting stuff without backup.

Well, honestly Foota, I'm surprised that you aren't aware of these matters of Historical record. I didn't post sources, because I didn't think I'd need to.

If I claimed that Japan attacked the U.S. Pacific Fleet at Pearl Harbour in 1941, would you want me to supply links to substantiate that claim? If I claimed that the Soviet Union ran a system of gulags, where they "disappeared" "Enemies of the State", without any judicial oversight, would you want me to supply links to substantiate that claim? If I claimed that the Ottoman Turks slaughtered more than 1.5 million Armenians in 1915, would you want me to supply links to substantiate that claim?

Honestly Foota, if you want me to provide you with an education, you're going to have to pay me for it. :)

It is just simple courtesy.

It could also be called condescending.

You know: my just assuming you wouldn't know of these facts.

When you provide your sources, you will also need to explain how the monumental arms sales from China, Russia and France does not eclipses America's "support" you list above.

Oh, right.

Okay, well, the Soviet Union, France, The Peoples' [sic] Republic of China, and Egypt SOLD Iraq conventional weapons, as part of the day-to-day business of the International Arms Trade.

The United States, as usual, took a less direct approach.

It was chiefly the U.S. government which furnished Iraq with economic aid. Iraq's war with Iran, and the consequent disruption in its oil export business, had caused the country to enter a deep debt. U.S. government economic assistance allowed Hussein to continue using resources for the war which otherwise would have to have been diverted. Between 1983 and 1990, Iraq received $5 billion in export credit guarantees from the Commodity Credit Corporation program run by the Department of Agriculture, beginning at $400 million per year in 1983 and increasing to over $1 billion per year in 1988 and 1989, finally coming to an end after another $500 million was granted in 1990.[10] Besides agricultural credits, the U.S. also provided Hussein with other loans. In 1985 the U.S. Export-Import Bank extended more than $684 million in credits to Iraq to build an oil pipeline through Jordan with the construction being undertaken by Californian construction firm Bechtel Corporation.[4]

That's from Wikipedia, naturally, it's a summary of events. Here's the link:

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gulf_War#U.S._military_aid_to_Iraq

If you dispute any or all of the references provided on that page, take it up with the Wikipedia authors, and let me know the result. (You might also take it up with your fellow Right-Wingers who haunt Wikipedia, and enquire way they haven't corrected something so fallacious.)

You see, whereas the countries mentioned in the graph that you presumably also took from Wikipedia SOLD CONVENTIONAL weapons to Iraq, it was the United States who gave Saddam Hussein the money to buy those weapons.

And of course, who can forget a gem like the "Dual-Use" programme?

Sell Iraq tanks that have been converted to tractors, on the good faith that they won't be reverted back to tanks. (Though just in case they break their word, show them how to revert them, and point them in the direction of someone who will supply them with the parts required to revert them.)

" The United States did not supply any arms to Iraq until 1982, when Iran's growing military success alarmed American policymakers. It then did so every year until 1988.

Although most other countries never hesitated to sell military hardware directly to Saddam Hussein's regime, the United States, equally keen to protect its interests in the region, adopted a more subtle approach. Howard Teicher served on the National Security Council as director of Political-Military Affairs. According to his 1995 affidavit and other interviews with former Regan and Bush administration officials, the Central Intelligence Agency secretly directed armaments and high-tech components to Iraq through false fronts and friendly third parties such as Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Kuwait, and they quietly encouraged rogue arms dealers and other Private military companies to do the same:

"The CIA, including both CIA Director Casey and Deputy Director Gates, knew of, approved of, and assisted in the sale of non-U.S. origin military weapons, ammunition and vehicles to Iraq. My notes, memoranda and other documents in my NSC files show or tend to show that the CIA knew of, approved of, and assisted in the sale of non-U.S. origin military weapons, munitions and vehicles to Iraq."

The full extent of these hidden transfers is not yet known. Teicher's files on the subject are held securely at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library and many other Reagan era documents that could help shine new light on the subject remain classified.

In 1996 the Scott Report in the UK investigated arms sales to Iraq in the 1980s by Matrix Churchill in what became known as the Arms-to-Iraq scandal.

That's from "Answers.com", and again, follow the references there, and dispute any with the co-authors.

http://www.answers.com/topic/arms-sales-to-iraq-1973-1990

And of course, the only subject you're focusing on - somewhat distractingly - is the sale of CONVENTIONAL weapons to Iraq.

Oh, and bizarrely and somewhat sneakily, measuring the period 1973 to 1990. Why '73?

So, can you find a graph detailing the supply of materials and precursors for Weapons of Mass Destruction Foota?

I can find something to substantiate the following point:

In the early 1990s, UN inspectors told the US Senate committee on banking, housing and urban affairs -- which oversees American export policy -- that they had "identified many US-manufactured items exported pursuant of licenses issued by the US department of commerce that were used to further Iraq's chemical and nuclear weapons development and missile delivery system development programs".

In 1992, the committee began investigating "US chemical and biological warfare-related dual-use exports to Iraq". It found that 17 individual shipments totaling some 80 batches of biomaterial were sent to Iraq during the Reagan years.

These included two batches of anthrax and two batches of botulism being sent to the Iraqi ministry of higher education on May 2, 1986; one batch each of salmonella and E.Coli sent to the Iraqi state company for drug industries on August 31, 1987.

Other shipments from the US went to the Iraqi Atomic Energy Commission on July 11, 1988; the department of biology at the University of Basra in November 1989; the department of microbiology at Baghdad University in June 1985; the ministry of health in April 1985 and Officers' City military complex in Baghdad in March and April 1986.

As well as anthrax and botulism, the USA also sent West Nile fever, brucella melitensis, which damages major organs, and clostridium perfringens, which causes gas gangrene. The shipments even went on after Saddam ordered the gassing of the Kurdish town of Halabja, in which some 5000 people died, in March 1988.

The chairman of the Senate committee, Don Riegle, said: "The executive branch of our government approved 771 different export licenses for sale of dual-use technology to Iraq. I think it's a devastating record."

I've got Senator Riegle's committee report to substantiate all that:

http://www.gulfweb.org/bigdoc/report/riegle1.html

What you got? Huh? Whatcha got?

You got nut-thing! You got NUT-THING!!

There is no greater support for Totalitarians then:

- Providing Weapons

- Diplomatic protection at the UN

You said it bro.

I think I've got "Providing Weapons" covered above.

Now then, how many UN Security Council Resolutions did the United States allow to be passed against Iraq during the Iran-Iraq War?

How many UNSC Resolutions proposed to end the Iran-Iraq War were vetoed by the United States, or squashed at the proposal stage?

When the Iran-Iraq war first broke out, didn't the U.S. Secretary of State Alexander Haig tell the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that he saw the possibility of improved ties with Baghdad and approvingly noted that Iraq was concerned by "the behavior of Soviet imperialism in the Middle Eastern area."?

And of course, the State Department removed Iraq from its list of "State Sponsors of Terrorism" in 1982 (to allow for "dual-purpose" exports), and added Iran in 1984.

Funny that.

But anyway, I've just noticed you've tricked me into substantiating a few of my original points already!

That's no fair!

Because I have yet to receive a guarantee from you - a cast iron guarantee mind you! - that if I take the time to bother to substantiate information I already know to be valid: do you PROMISE to concede that Saddam Hussein, and his Iraq, was entirely the Frankenstein's Monster creation of successive United States Governments?

Do you promise to acknowledge the fact that without U.S. support and assistance, Saddam Hussein would have been just another tin-pot Arab dictator; using oil revenues to crush any internal dissent against his dictatorial regime; and obsessed with securing his own power-base?

'Cos if you can't promise me that Foota, it kind of begs the question why I should waste the time bothering to try and prove a minute detail of History; the relevance of which, is only as an indicator for the broader themes we can only really discuss around here?

It looks an awful lot like chaff.

Peace