In Reply To #105

In Reply To #101

With all due respect Holyman, I have come to believe that the whole concept of arguing on the Internet, or in person for that matter, is a foolish thing to do. I say this for a few reasons. First of all, when people argue it is never truly about facts or informing another person, but about who is right and therefore who wins. 1 party, if not both, usually holds resentment for the other and is therefore less likely to really listen to what they are saying. Because of this, the purpose of trying to enlighten the other person or "win" is defeated as it becomes impossible.

There are also other factors that come into play such as a person's pride or simply how stubborn they are. You have those who take pride in being right, those who are bullheaded, and there are those who are both. Any communication which contradicts their current beliefs is a waste of time as they will never be willing to consider any of it. Seeing as this is the case, I ask why bother? If someone wants to hear your views or is interested in your perspective on a particular issue or subject, then by all means tell them. However, to argue a certain point, especially with those who were never willing to listen in the first place, seems to be a waste of time and effort.

Please do not take offense as I do not mean for this to be an attack. I believe your intentions are good in trying to open the eyes of Evilfish. Seeing though as it is virtually impossible to do so, why continue?

Ah, no offence taken, I can assure you: I agree completely with everything you've written.

Oh, with the exception of the bit about "trying to open the eyes of Evilfish".

I believe that it is completely impossible to open the eyes of EvilFish. :)

Fact of the matter is that the harder someone tries to "open the eyes" of the many people like EvilFish, the harder that people like EvilFish will CLOSE their eyes and keep them shut; for exactly the reasons you state.

So why continue?

Well, I'll tell you. :)

If you look at the EvilFish-types, you notice straight away that they always seem to represent and promote the "views" of (for want of a better phrase) "The Establishment". But calling those ideas "views" is a bit of a stretch really. What we're talking about isn't so much an ideological view, as it is a Way of Life. That Way of Life comprises power-hunting and power-securing, and the social advance of a small elite, at the expense of the Greater Majority.

You know, EvilFitch and I sit here arguing over a tiny detail of diplomatic legalese, with the vague intention of establishing the guilt or complicity of a handful of individual human beings, who happen to be at the top of the Human Hierarchy. But to what end?

Even if there was the remotest chance of EvilFitch turning around and acknowledging or conceding defeat on that tiny little point, so what? What's changed? One more human being wakes up to the fact that our Human social structures facilitate the obscene enrichment of a handful, whilst the overwhelming majority spend their (often brutally short and nasty) lives in penury. Big deal: it doesn't exactly move us closer to The Revolution.

In Truth then, it isn't EvilFish I'm trying to beat; it is the status quo that he defends and rationalises, and more than that, the "style" of dialogue he utilises I'm trying to wear down and expose. If it wasn't EvilFish representing that "style", it would be someone else: not for nothing do I call his type "Brownshirts".

You see, whilst you rightly lament the purposelessness of arguing on the Internet, and arguing in general; you may not have noticed that such "dialogue" is a direct reflection of the nature of political discourse and dialogue that takes place at the highest levels of our Society. For every EvilFish obfuscating and dissembling, within whichever Internet Community has the misfortune to host them; there is a politician or public servant somewhere in the corridors of power, doing exactly the same thing, usually in front of a camera and/or microphone.

These simple - and let's face it, clearly frightened - individuals are merely copying what they see their Patriarchs doing. Doesn't matter if their "Father Figure" is George Bush, Kim Il Jong or Osama bin Laden; they are all dutifully following their "Dear Leader", without question or criticism.

So why do I care?

Well, I care about Humans, and I care about Human Society. I see the massive potential in each and every Human Being - yay, even as the Brownshirts see only primitive violence and regression in same - and I see a brilliant potential future, for Humanity as a Whole.

But what I also see is an increasingly disaffected and apathetic Humanity, increasingly disconnected from the political process. And I see this disconnection as both the result of politicians' behaviour and style, and as serving those same politicians' interests.

Clearly, voter disaffection and apathy works in the interests of politicians. In 2005 for example, Tony Blair became Prime Minister of the UK, because 22% of the eligible voters in the UK, voted for candidates who belonged to the same party as Blair. Even if that 22% voted for New Labour candidates, because doing so was their only mechanism for supporting Tony Blair, it still hardly constitutes a democratic mandate to govern. The relationship between the popular vote and the successfully elected in the United States isn't a whole lot different.

So we know that our "Leaders" benefit from our apathy; but where does that apathy come from?

I believe that one of the main sources of that apathy, is the manner in which politicians present themselves to the Public.

It's a cliché because it is True: a politician can never answer a straight question.

This is because he or she is not primarily interested in appealing to the Public, or representing the Public interest; it is because that politician is subject to the intensely, uh, politicised culture in which he or she will have to serve.

So for example, if you ask a Republican candidate in the US whether he or she thinks the Iraq War was a mistake, clearly the answer must be "Yes", whatever way you spin it. The intention may not have been a mistake, but clearly the prosecution of the War has been. Since it wasn't a War of necessity, but one of choice, the mistake at least must have been over timing and preparation. One way or another, the situation in Iraq today, clearly indicates - without question - that the Invasion was a mistake, either in timing, preparation, prosecution, intent, or all four. But they must answer "No", for to not do so, invites political annihilation. Not from the People, but from their competitors in the Corridors of Power.

But it's okay, we all make mistakes. I always say, "If you're not making mistakes, you're not trying hard enough!"

But a politician is not allowed to admit mistakes; a "Leader" is not allowed to admit they fucked up. Openly and candidly admitting a mistake, without reservation or obfuscation, and taking responsibility for that mistake, just seems not to be a requirement for politicians these days - and I'm not sure it ever really was.

See, in our current political systems, a politician rationalises to his or her self, that to admit a mistake would be to doom their career; and without a career, they will not be in a position to further help their Society. So even though it is plain for all to see that a mistake has been made, the politician must use all the powers of "Spin", pedantry, deliberate ambiguity and plausible denial at their disposal, to ensure that responsibility for a mistake is never pinned on them.

Despite swearing an oath to uphold a Constitution, first and foremost; or swearing to always put duty to Queen and Country before duty to Self: a politician will go ahead with the belief that if they don't look after themselves FIRST; they won't be able to protect the Constitution or Nation.

And what we, the People, end up with, is a Congress or Parliament full of professional liars and obfuscators; who can be guaranteed to never tell or admit the Truth, if doing so would lead to their political ruin (though of course, they'll ALWAYS tell the Truth, if doing so is to their advantage).

This situation is at its most graphic during Time of War.

The "War" in Iraq continues, not because it has the remotest chance of ever achieving its officially stated purpose, but because the politicians who began it simply can not admit defeat, can not admit they fucked up, can not "back down". That is the ONLY reason why the US Occupation of Iraq continues; it is the ONLY reason why US servicemen and women continue to die 1,000's of miles away from home; and the ONLY reason why the lives of Iraqis remain a living Hell.

It is as clear to us "outside observers" that the whole Iraq Adventure is an unmitigated disaster; as it is clear to us in this thread, that EvilFitch is twisting in the wind and relying solely on pedantry and sophistry to avoid conceding the petty and insignificant point he and I are haggling over.

And yet, EvilFitch keeps arguing, the bombs keep falling, and the Humans keep dying: for no reason other than the preservation of George W. Bush and Dick Cheney's political careers - just two human beings, in a World of billions.

But here's the corollary: it ISN'T just two human beings anymore, who stand to lose their social standing. There are in fact millions of humans, like EvilFitch and Foota, who have invested their social and Community standing, lock, stock and barrel, in the success of the "Iraq Mission".

Ironically, if Bush and Cheney turned around now and said "Alright, hands up. We fucked up. Sorry.", they'd almost certainly get an increase in respect, just for (finally) being honest about the whole mess. Alright, they'd probably still lose their jobs, and could even end up in prison, but at least they will have done the decent thing by Humanity.

But if Bush and Cheney did come clean, can you imagine the effect that would have on the likes of EvilFitch & Co? They'd be devastated; they'd imagine themselves to become the laughing stock of Society; they'd run away and hide in shame and embarrassment. Not because of how those of us who opposed the War from the get-go - and saw it for the shameful mistake it was - would treat them: we Pacifists are actually quite a genial lot, and don't go in for gloating or kicking a person when they're down.

No, they base the reaction they'd get if they (or their Dear Leaders) came clean, on the reaction they'd give their "Opposition", if that "Opposition" was suddenly and incontestably discredited.

So, we're kind of stuck for the moment, with politicians and politicians' supporters, who whilst otherwise intelligent and sincere, will tie themselves and their language in knots, all in order to avoid the thing they Fear the most in the Whole World.

Because there is one thing for which human beings seem willing to give up everything.

They will give up Love, they will give up Peace, they will give up health, harmony, and happiness; they will give up safety, security, and even their sanity, for this one thing.

Being right.

They are willing to give up everything they've ever worked for, everything they've ever wanted, everything they've ever created, in order to be "right".

Indeed, for this, they are willing to give up Life itself.

This homicidal, suicidal and frequently genocidal malaise is endemic to Human Society. We get the politicians we deserve, apparently, and our current politicians reflect nothing more than our own psychopathic need to be "Right" all the Time.

Being "Right" has nothing to do with factual accuracy; it certainly has nothing to do with The Truth; and ABSOLUTELY nothing to do with morality or religion. Being "Right" is about being held in high esteem by one's fellows; it is about believing one's Self to be a necessary and vital member of any Community, an indispensable and crucial component of a Society.

But that is only the "Right" thing to do, if the Community or Society they belong to is as obsessed as they are, about being "Right".

Actually, most Communities are far more concerned with what works, and what does not work.

Something is "Right", if it serves a purpose, if it serves OUR purpose; and if something does not serve our purposes, well, then it isn't "Right" for us, right at that moment.

War and violence may once have been the "Right" thing to do; certain religions may have had the "Right" idea, for their Time: but we move on, we progress; at least, that is, if we're moving in the Right Direction (which can only be forwards and upwards - making progress).

It isn't that War was always wrong: there are plenty of Wars that have been fought that have been absolutely vital for the progress of Humanity. World War Two - the response to German Nazism and Japanese Imperialism - was undoubtedly the "Right" War to fight.

But just because one or a few Wars were righteously fought, doesn't make War in and of itself inherently Right, inherently purposeful, or undoubtedly necessary.

When we find ourselves fighting much, much weaker opponents for example, that might be an excellent moment to consider how "Right" our War is: ESPECIALLY when those weaker opponents are beating us.

But alas and alack, those of us who are not psychopathically obsessed with being "Right" are increasingly distancing ourselves from the political process. We are so apathetic and disaffected that we are allowing the most barbaric and inhumane of actions to be carried out in our names.

Now there are many reasons for this, but one of them, is the presence in our Communities of those who parrot and regurgitate the "Establishment Line". And it is not so much WHAT they are saying, so much as HOW they go about saying it.

I hesitate to lump EvilFitch and Foota in the same category, because actually, Foota can be and usually is far more reasonable - and open to reason - than someone like EvilFitch.

EvilFitch represents in =PBF=, the nadir of human discourse: his every expression is an attempt to discourage enlightened and reasoned debate.

He is a primitive and territorial animal, and he has staked his territory out as "The Truth". Anyone who strays into "his" territory is vigorously and vociferously assaulted, until they either back down, or more usually, gives up in exasperated frustration.

Because EvilFitch (and others of his ilk) believes he is here to stake out and "defend" the Truth, anyone who disagrees with him - or more usually, anyone he disagrees with - is given a course in aversion therapy, to ensure they never stray onto "his turf" again.

But most members of this Community aren't really interested in being "Right"; they are more interested in Being Aware. They accept that there are many Truths about our lives that they'll never know, and frankly, they're not too fussed about that. Their main motivation - beyond hanging out with people whose company they enjoy - is simply to understand what the consensus view is.

They don't claim to know or represent the Absolute Truth; nor indeed do they wish to claim to know or represent the "Absolute Truth". They just want to know what the General Feeling about Things is, before getting back to taking the piss out of each other, and enjoying each others' company. If they pick up a few useful nuggets of information about what is going on in our World, then all to the good; but it isn't essential.

Thing is, there are many nuggets of information, which if allowed to breathe in the context of common sense and understanding, would horrify many, and perhaps propel a few to overcome their apathy and disaffection, and try to affect a positive change in the World.

But all the while we've got harpies like EvilFitch sat atop the "Official Truth", and maintaining that position through twisted and torpid rationalising and spin, such changes in awareness are retarded, if not completely thwarted.

So, the reason I continue DirtySock, is not to try and achieve some kind of intellectual victory over EvilFitch, and it isn't to try and open HIS eyes.

The reason I continue, is to try in my own way, to open the eyes, ears, and most importantly, minds of those individuals, who are more easily intimidated into silence and apathy, by the likes of EvilFitch.

It isn't a question of replacing EvilFitch's "Truths" with my "Truths"; it is simply a question of showing that what he (and his ilk) claims to be the "Absolute Truth", is actually far from absolute, and frequently, far from the Truth.

It is NEVER about the specific points we may be tussling over; it is ALWAYS about showing that NO-ONE needs to be intimidated into silence, by the bullying and dissembling tactics of a bunch of people who can't admit to themselves what is obvious to Everyone Else:

That they are NOT ALL RIGHT.

Peace