In Reply To #58

In Reply To #45

Right-wing Americans aren't going to have their minds changed by a gob-shite Brit who is at least as full of his own self-importance as they are; but if I can satirise and ridicule them enough to encourage more worldly and intelligent Americans to have a crack at steering the American nation towards the Ideal it was originally intended to exemplify...

Holyman - you never disappoint! ; )

I try my best. :)

Has it ever occurred to you that you don't have it all figured out?  Just maybe?

Oh Foota, I KNOW I don't have "IT ALL" figured out. And I think that is what gives me such an advantage in my discourse with demagogues like yourself who clearly feel that they DO have it all worked out.Remember, self-righteous certitude and an unshakeable belief that what you are doing is the only right and correct thing to do is the domain of the Right-Winger/Neo-Conservative/Fascist/Reactionary/Fundamentalist. My dominion is the philosophical understanding that no one person really understands Everything that is going on. So I figure it's best not to start killing people and pursuing offensive Wars of choice without, you know, more understanding.

YOU worship at the altar of the Decider-in-Chief Foota. YOU support the Might-Makes-Right, We-Can-Do-No-Wrong, No-Point-Flip-Flopping, No-Mistakes-Here, We-Can-Only-Do-The-Right-Thing Brigade.

And the thing is, in the United States of America, that Brigade is (or at least was) the dominant force. And I like to think that in some small way, my quiet little voice, and the voices of so many like me, inside and outside the U.S., have helped expose the Bush Administration to be the criminal, conniving, destructive, sociopathic and murderous force it so clearly is.

So Foota, the only thing I ever needed to figure out, is why people like you - who believe (believed? ;-)) their selves to be so utterly Right - were and are so clearly wrong. From then on, all I need (needed?) to do, was stand on the side-lines and puncture every bit of demagogic rhetoric that spewed forth from your "Righteous" leaders, and willing regurgitators like your good self.

It would be (have been?) nice to be able to de-cultify a few otherwise intelligent and decent people like yourself Foota, but my main purpose has always been to help the non-brainwashed from getting sucked into the Cult of Self-Righteous Militarism that you are a fully paid-up member of.

You certainly have not figured out the art of persuasive debate.  Sure you have your like-minded fan club that enjoys your impressive vocabulary and prose.  But your "satire" falls on deaf ears when you treat those like me (with different points of view) as nothing more than an "anthropological" specimen who you see as no different than the followers of Al Qaeda.

But Foota, you clearly don't understand the purpose of Satire.

Satire is not intended to be of benefit to those satirised. Satire is and always has been meant to undermine, deflate and ultimately bring about the fall of those who are satirised.

The Right-Wing voice in America has, since 9/11, taken over and completely dominated the U.S. Body Politic. People like you have taken the events and the deaths of 9/11, and used them to pursue your own attempts to try to create a World where your paranoia and misanthropy must become Society's sole consideration.

As I said in my previous post, every society has a stratum of such individuals.

If you were a Muslim living in the Middle East, you would be a Wahhabist or Salafist, engaged in the same kind of nationalistic demagoguery, and you'd be arguing equally blindly for Jihad. If you lived in Israel, you'd be an ardent Zionist, disingenuously justifying offensive military action against your Arab neighbours. And if you lived in the UK, you'd be a fully-paid up member of what we call "The Daily Mail Brigade".

Unfortunately, given America's current (and fortunately fading) military and economic might, this sub-section of Society has a dominance that has a profoundly negative effect on the World as a whole. The kind of effect that the UK's paltry "Daily Mail Brigade" can only dream of.

My job as a satirist is not to convert the unconvertible, but to try and show the overwhelming majority of Americans that think and behave as the Rest of the Civilised World does, how to escape from the thrall they have been consumed by since 9/11.

I think that what really irritates you (and YOUR "like-minded fan club") about me, is that you simply can't silence me. I position myself as a supreme Rationalist. If there was any rational basis to your beliefs and opinions, you could silence me with a simple, rational exposition. But there IS NO rational basis to your beliefs and opinions, so you can't.

And you can't silence me. But it doesn't stop you trying, does it? Even now, you're trying to get me to see why I shouldn't say the things that I say.

But there's the real difference between you and I Foota. I don't, at any point, try to deny or negate your right or facility to say whatever you want. But what I do, at every point, is listen clearly to everything you say, and then effortlessly deconstruct it. I WANT you to keep extolling what you believe, in the way you do. It is the raw material for my deconstruction. The more you keep trying to justify your intellectually bankrupt position, the more I am able to expose it for the emotional demagoguery it is.

Long live Free Speech, I say. :)

How intellectually profound!  Let's use satire to smear all Conservatives, just to give the "reasoned" folk some ammunition to win the debate of ideas.

The Reasonable Folk aren't trying to "win the debate of ideas" Foota, that's your motivation.

The Reasonable Folk are just trying to make sense of what is going on in the World, and to use that sense to make a better World, for Everyone, not just those who agree that they are Right.

If you spent more time trying to defend actual policy positions  as you do name calling (for instance - your desire to prosecute Clinton and Blair as war criminals for using violence to end the genocide in the Balkans) you may be a bit more persuasive.

LOL. Still clinging to that Clinton/Blair/War Criminals/Balkans bit of our dialogue Foota. Do you REALLY not see how desperate that makes you?

Anyhoo, once more, with feeling, for the record: I really am NOT trying to persuade you of anything. I really do NOT see how you could or would ever allow me to persuade you of anything, whilst you're still fixating on the "Win".

Just look at your last post, you managed to throw out the following insults demonizing people like me - trying to dress it up as intellectually clever.

- violent troglodytes ; - tribally-minded;  - paranoid; - gullible; - brownshirts; - bully; - cult mentality; - intellectual dishonest; - disingenuousness ; - self-righteous; - aggressive demagogue; - victimised martyr; - singular minded

Foota, I AM trying to demonise you; just as you and your ilk try to demonise anyone who doesn't entirely confirm to your tribally-minded, paranoid, gullible, fascistic, bullying, intellectually dishonest and disingenuous, self-righteous, aggressive, demagogic, victimised and singularly-minded Cult.

What's up bro? You can give, but you can't take?

After all, if people like me (gasp - neocons!) are such a danger to the world, wouldn't it be more effective to engage in meaningful and respectful debate instead of giving us a reason to tune you out further entrenching our views?See, now that would be a good example of disingenuousness right there Foota.It suggests that I have never tried to effectively engage you in meaningful and respectful debate, doesn't it? It suggest that I have tried to write, at great length, rational and reasoned dialogue, to try and get you to understand why your ideology is socially, intellectually and morally bankrupt.

And I think you know that I have.

But unlike you, I'm not into the unimaginative and lazy strategy of "Staying the Course". If something isn't working out for me, I'll try something else, and something else, and something else. Whatever it takes to get to the

Peace