In Reply To #67

Too funny!  Do you even read what you write?  Kind of hard to have a "meaningful and respectful" debate when you go on to say on sentence later that one's ideology is "morally bankrupt" - don't ya think?

Aye, there's the rub Foota.

You have no ability to self-identify beyond your adopted ideology.

When you read me describe the ideology you champion as morally bankrupt, you take that to mean that I am calling you morally bankrupt. Any intellectual assault on your ideology, you take as a personal assault against you.

You Foota, are a personable, reasonable and articulate individual. And you know that through our In-Forum and PM dialogue, that I have respect for you, and on the whole, behave respectfully towards you; as, on the whole, you behave towards me.

That's as far as our personalities really get involved. I don't know an awful lot more about you personally, than basic details about your living arrangements and work-life. You very rarely share any personal information about yourself, and only occasionally contribute to the more frivolous threads that are the real meat and grist of this forum.

However, you constantly and continually champion and promote an ideology that is the creation of a politically and socially elite group of individuals in the United States. And it just so happens that your chosen ideology is one that I am vehemently opposed to, in all its forms and functions.

Now in the true and pure spirit of Forum Debate, you and I should be able to discuss, debate and argue the merits of our opposing ideologies, using all the rhetorical flourishes and devices that have been a mainstay of intellectual and philosophical debate for 1,000's of years.

BUT! Because you - and many others - identify personally with the ideology you champion, you take, as you have above, any criticism, condemnation or castigation of that ideology, as a personal attack upon yourself.

I might add, incidentally, that this is the precise and intended aim of the political and social elites who design, craft and market the "Ideology" you so nobly champion; and utilises precisely the same mechanics used to great effect by fascist propagandists of the 1930's and 1940's. But you know, less you get distracted, consider I'm talking about the mechanism here, not a qualitative reference to what "Civilised People Should Feel About Fascists!"

So there you go Foota. We CAN have a meaningful debate, where I call your ideology all sorts of rude names (especially if I back up the insults with an intellectual justification), and yet remain respectful of each other's personalities.

Can you see that?

"I Holyman am a self-professed intellectual who has EVERYTHING figured out (even though I claim that I am open to other POV's).  You better listen to me and forget all of your brainwashing from Imperial American Media because it is clear that you are wrong and that I am right - because I know - I am an intellectual.  If you dare disagree with me, I will bombard you with all of the invective...."satire".....that I can possibly throw at you in a stoned stream of consciousness in no less then 50,000 words."

See, now that isn't terribly respectful Foota, and is quite meaningless to the context of our debate.

What you're doing here is targeting me personally, with your invective. You are doing it, because you feel that is what I'm doing/have done to you.

In other words then, you've personalised our dialogue. Instead of it being about what is taking place in the World, amongst governments, nations, cultures, politicians and social leaders, you've made it about you and I.

In doing so, you make it so that our dialogue really has nothing to do with the "issues", and everything to do with which one of us occupies the position of ideological "Alpha Male" amongst the =PBF= Forum Community.

It's all about "The Win". It's all about which one of us has allied himself with the most dominant and triumphant social or political ideology. You cease to identify your Self as an individual, and instead see yourself as some kind of McCarthy-ite FOOT soldier, "Fighting the Good Fight", against the kind of ideological and moral decay that has created a World Society that, as far as you can see, is a terrible and frightening place.

My actual ideological position has very little in the way of a fixed foundation, and I think that this must be what you find so frustrating about our dialogue. Perhaps I can help by describing what those few fixed foundations are:

I believe that the World is NOT a terrible and frightening place.

I believe that many individuals in positions of power and authority have always taken active steps to try and make the World SEEM like a terrible and frightening place, because that helps them secure their positions of power and authority.

That's pretty much it Foota.

Every other position I take on any other issue, is dependant entirely upon the mood I am in; how much and what type of information I presently hold about any issue; and what I feel at any given Time is the most common sense (in my opinion) position to hold on any given issue.

Compare and contrast this fluid and flexible "posture" with yourself and many others who have already decided - based on their adopted ideology (usually, it has to be said, Reactionary Conservatism) - what they are going to think and feel about any issue, before they have explored all the information available about said issue.

Foota, I really do think that it is Time for Humanity to evolve beyond the monolithic, tribal instinct that causes us to wed our intellect, individuality and imagination to a single, marketed, advertised and spun ideology.

The World is too complex these days for every issue to be viewed solely through a Red or Blue lens. We're beyond Primary Colours now and well into Full Spectrum Thought. The things that happen in our World can not be reduced to Binary Alternatives, where Everyone has to or gets to line up behind the Red or Blue Team, With or Against.

There IS a positive and productive purpose to the discussion of abstract and opposing ideologies, and the comparison of the merits of each. But that purpose is not served well by those engaged in the discussion investing their personality or sense of self-worth into a particular ideology.

Now then, you've asked me a closed question at the end of your post, and so I can give it a closed answer. Everything I've written above, is pertinent to the nature and purpose of our dialogue, and I believe I've written it in a respectful and meaningful enough manner for it to be worth your while responding to.

However, if you believe that our dialogue is still about demonstrating which one of us has the largest E-Peen (and hence most worthy of propagating our Memetics), then you can zero in on this final, irrelevant bit, and worry at it like the Old Dog you so often present yourself as.

Lay off the bong and philosophy once in a while and stick to the issues.  For instance, should Clinton and Blair have been sharing a cell with Milosevic in the Hague for using NATO bombs to end genocide against Balkan Muslims?

Yes.

Peace