In Reply To #149

Silly question time. Iran have said there can be no pre-conditions for talks. Why don't the UN just shun the need for pre-conditions and just get talking? Surely that's better than just sitting back watching time go by while the chances of armed conflict apparently becomes more likely?

It isn't the UN trying to set the pre-conditions.

Iran, as a signatory to NNPT, is well within its inalienable rights to continue processing Uranium, and developing its civilian nuclear facilities.

It is the US that imposes pre-conditions for talks that it knows Iran is unlikely to agree to. This is because the US doesn't want talks with Iran.

The Iraq Study Group - and just about every other informed diplomatic and strategic group in the US - recommended a dialogue with Iran, and the Bush Administration flatly turned down that recommendation.

The Bush Administration does not want to engage in talks with Iran.

The Bush Administration wants to keep threatening Iran and keep the prospect of offensive military actions against Iran high on the agenda.

The EU, Russia and China want normal relations with Iran, want access to its resources and markets.

The Bush Administration wants a return to a client regime like that of the Shah's that ran until 1979.

The Bush Administration does not want to share Iran's resources and markets with anyone else; and as it does not want to share Iraq's resources and markets with anyone else.

The Bush Administration does not want talks or any kind of dialogue with the Iranian Government; as this would instantly legitimise the Iranian Government in a way that would totally undermine the carefully constructed propaganda that so many Americans are being fed.

Therefore, just like the Israelis with the Palestinians, the US will insist on pre-conditions that it HOPES the Iranians will not agree to.

What will throw the Bush Administration's plans into disarray, is if the EU, Russia and/or China convinces the Iranian Government to call the US' bluff.

This might seem like the obvious thing for the Iranian Government to do anyway, but just like the Bush Administration, it has its own domestic political affairs to consider. The average Persian in the street won't necessarily grasp the geo-political complexities of such a strategy, and just see it as the Iranian Government surrendering to the US.

The Bush Administration is counting on this to avoid having its bluff called by the Iranians.

Peace