In Reply To #156

In Reply To #155

It is not the oil itself that is controlled, but the means of production of that oil.

Kindly show me where America and the Iraqis are not doing everything in their power to increase the production of Iraqi oil?

So you agree: America is in control of the production of Iraqi oil.

Prior to the Invasion and Occupation by the United States of Iraq, the Iraqi Oil Industry was nationalised and owned by the Socialist Ba'ath Party.

Who owns the Iraqi Oil Industry now Foota?

The only ones who are trying to "control" the production of Iraq's oil are your valiant "freedom fighters" who manage to blow up Iraqi pipelines between filming their latest beheading snuff film.

You know, when you write stuff like that Foota, you sound like a squawking, hysterical old woman who has clearly let her emotions get the better of her. :)

Seriously. All I hear is "Squawk! Cluck! Squawk! Cluck!"

And as for "funding Islamist terrorism", do try to remember that only a few remaining myopic Americans see Hezbollah and Hamas as terrorist organisations. To most of us with any objective insight, they are clearly resistance movements.

A "resistance movement"?  What is Hezbollah resisting Holyman?  Even the UN does not recognize their complaints over the northern border of Israel.  Yet somehow you think Hezbollah's "resistance" is legitimate?  Why are you ignoring the UN's "proclamation" and siding with Hezbollah on this issue?

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebaa_Farm

Ah, wrong Wiki entries Foota:

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1978_South_Lebanon_conflict

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1982_Lebanon_War

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1982-2000_South_Lebanon_conflict

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2006_Israel-Lebanon_conflict

That's right, the correct answer is:

Hezbollah are resisting Israeli military offensives against Lebanon.

As for Hamas, I am still waiting for you to address their anti-Semitic and openly Islamist Charter.

What's to address?

Israel occupies Palestine.

Most Palestinians despise Israel for this.

Most Palestinians voted for Hamas because they seem to be the only Palestinian organisation with the balls to stand-up to Israel.

Hamas recognises that Israel exists - how could they not?

Will Hamas recognise Israel's "Right" to exist? Well, that's a bargaining chip, isn't it, and one they'd be foolish to give away.

Will Israel recognise Palestinian's Right of Return?

Will Israel recognise Palestine's Right to exist?

Or don't you get yet Foota that the WHOLE WORLD sees the United States as the greatest threat to World Peace?

Or is it that you just don't care?

People wonder why I give Euros (Iran's largest trading partner and breeding ground for Islamic radicals) such a hard time.  I certainly do care what Europe thinks, only in that it shows history repeating itself as Europe's current apathetic generation are soon to be looking for scapegoats (again) as their unsustainable societies begin to break down (again).

They got to point the finger somewhere - and Americans are less likely to burn down European infrastructure, spread radioactive poison, shut down oil pipelines, and blow up trains if you mock us in the press.

Yup, that's right, it's everyone else's fault but America's Foota.

I'll believe you, but billions won't.

It is easy to be anti-American.  It ain't brave.

It's not anti-Americanism Foota.

Most Europeans - and indeed, much of the World - recognises that a clear three-quarters of the American population don't support or desire their countries imperialistic, bullying and militaristic attitude to the Rest of the World.

Most of us recognise that most Americans are really too bothered by what's going on in the Rest of the World, and just want to get on and live their own lives, without outside interference, and without interfering in the outside World.

Just like the majority of Humans in the Rest of the World.

You flatter yourself when you declare that hostility and antipathy to the Bush Administration, the Neo-Conservatives, and many previous US Governments equates to Anti-Americanism.

YOU are not America Foota. You are just one person who happens to live in America, and happens to blindly support the militaristic policies of your current Government.

YOU are not representative of the majority opinion of American citizens.

Europeans and most Humans in the Rest of the World are not Anti-American; they are anti-militaristic-moronic-throwbacks to the 1950's. It just happens that the loudest, most obvious and most damaging contingent of that group of individuals has made the United States their base.

Really, you do a disservice to the majority of Americans to conflate criticism of your morally bankrupt ideology with criticism of the United States as a whole Society.

Peace