In Reply To #152

In Reply To #150

The Bush Administration wants a return to a client regime like that of the Shah's that ran until 1979.

The Bush Administration does not want to share Iran's resources and markets with anyone else; just as it does not want to share Iraq's resources and markets with anyone else.

What the hell are you talking about Holyman?  Seriously?

America does not want to "share" Iraq's oil resources with anyone else?

Your evidence being?

The U.S. military occupation of Iraq.

A U.S.-client regime installed as the notional "Iraqi Government".

U.S. created and instituted legislation - that cannot be overturned by the Iraqi "Government" - that forces and enforces the privatisation of Iraq's Industry and Economy, particularly its Oil industry.

And with the exception of a few crumbs thrown to British companies, all contracts for investment and operation in Iraqi industry - especially oil - have been "awarded" (mostly on a no-bid basis) to U.S. companies. With the meatiest contracts for public "Reconstruction" works going to Vice-President Cheney's former company - Halliburton and its subsidiaries.

In summary:

The United States militarily occupies Iraq; the Iraqi Government is not independent of the U.S.; U.S.-imposed "Neo-Liberal" economic policies are enshrined in the Constitution of Iraq in a binding and unchangeable way; all foreign investment in Iraq comes from U.S. companies closely associated with the U.S. Government.

How do you "control" a fungible commodity like Oil in a free market?  Specifics please.

You control access to the production of it: any Army other than the U.S.'s currently providing protection to Iraq's oil production facilities?

The commodity only becomes subject to the conditions of the "Free" market, when it arrives at the Market.

It is not the oil itself that is controlled, but the means of production of that oil.

http://www.mees.com/postedarticles/oped/v50n08-5OD01.htm

IRT - an Iranian "client state".  I think most Americans (and the few remaining clear thinking Euros) would be happy with a non-Theocracy government that does not execute homosexuals, deny the Holocaust and fund Islamist terrorism (Hezbollah, Hamas, Islamic Jihad) that destabilizes the Region.

I think most Iranians are more happy with an Iranian Government of any description, than a dictatorial client regime, particularly one sponsored by the United States.

It really isn't any fucking business of Americans or Europeans what Government the Iranians enjoy, tolerate or are subject to. Americans don't take lectures from foreigners on how to run their Police State, with it's 2 million convicts, death sentences, and some decidedly backward religious views.

And as for "funding Islamist terrorism", do try to remember that only a few remaining myopic Americans see Hezbollah and Hamas as terrorist organisations. To most of us with any objective insight, they are clearly resistance movements.

They may well be proxies of Iran, but they receive a lot less support of all kinds that America's proxy in the region does.

If the Iranian LEADERSHIP was not so bat-shit crazy with their apocalyptic end-times rhetoric and open and repeated threats against Israel, most people would not be so concerned about them acquiring nukes.

Most people aren't concerned by the Iranian LEADERSHIP Foota, only a handful of gullible, paranoid Americans like your good self.

Most people (in the World) are far more concerned by the clearly bat-shit crazy American LEADERSHIP that has been threatening Iran constantly and continually for the past six years, and seems hell-bent on turning the entire Middle East into one raging Hell on Earth.

And most people are VERY concerned that the United States under the Bush Administration is still allowed to possess nuclear weapons.

Or don't you get yet Foota that the WHOLE WORLD sees the United States as the greatest threat to World Peace?

http://www.ft.com/cms/s/4d0ad7dc-feeb-11da-84f3-0000779e2340.html

Or is it that you just don't care?

Peace