In Reply To #140

In Reply To #139

Yes, but it just doesn't make sense to me I guess.  These politicians have to become jaded at some point along the way to power.  Or is that once they get power they do anything to keep a hold of it?

I think the problem is that getting elected these days is so damn expensive.

I think the U.S. Presidency costs about $100m these days, the British Premiership about £30m, and it's anywhere between 50 to 100 million Euros for the leadership of other Western Democracies.

Thing is, people like Silvio Berlusconi who can afford to finance their own electoral bids are the exception, most other politicians and prospective "Leaders" need to raise their money, for every Election and Re-Election bid.

This puts them in thrall to the lobbying groups, the special interest groups, and of course the corporations who can afford to invest this kind of money in a potential legislator or governmental executive.

I think it is this need for a political leader to whore themselves out that really jades them; pretty soon, all they have left for themselves is the need and desire to hold onto their positions of power.

It just doesn't compute that we need to make up reasons to attack countries.  Is it the need for securing future resources?  The best interests of the country in the politician's mind?

I think that in the politician's mind, they conflate the "best interests of the country", with their own best interests: the two become inseparable. If it is a good idea for the country, then it is a good idea for them; and of course, if it is a good idea for them, then it MUST be a good idea.

Then, when what is good for them becomes what is good for the corporations, lobby groups and SIG's that sponsored their election campaigns, fulfilling those "special" - and undoubtedly minority - interests becomes, through the conduit of the elected "Leader", what is good for the country.

In specific relation to America's current "interests" in the Middle East, what is "Good for America", is making sure that the European Union, Russia and China aren't able to develop their economic interests with Iraq and Iran.

Keeping Iraq in a state of disarray, and threatening to do likewise to Iran, means that European, Russian and Chinese corporate investors are going to be wary about investing too heavily in these regions, until the threat of offensive American military dies down in the case of Iran, and in the case of Iraq, when the United States withdraws.

Ultimately, it isn't about protecting American interests from tin-pot, 2nd World Nations like Iraq and Iran; it is about U.S. commercial and corporate interests protecting potential markets from the REAL rivals (and threats) in the EU, Russia and China.

Peace