In Reply To #8

In Reply To #7

Have you ever actually read Orwell's "1984" Foota?

Peace

"To see what is in front of one's nose is a constant struggle"

Is that a yes then Foota? Have you read the book?

Besides, aren't you always admonishing us for claiming Iran is making nukes and enriching Uranium?  Now you seem to be gleefully accepting the idea to counter the analysis of the "right-winger" Washington Post.

I've never admonished "you" for claiming that Iran is enriching Uranium.

I know full well that Iran has been enriching Uranium all along, as it is legally entitled to do as a signatory to the NNPT.

What I have admonished "you" for, is constantly threatening Iran with military action, including thinly-veiled nuclear threats, on the spurious grounds that Iran is/may/could-very-well-be developing nuclear weapons, and the specious assertion that once it has developed them, will use them immediately to annihilate Israel.

And as for that "analysis" by the Washington Post writer...

I have to say, I've been quite busy today, and will be so for the next couple of days, since I'm on a course. And when I had a brief chance to check-in, I really was expecting to see howls of indignation from you, as you railed bitterly at Iran's non-compliance with the UNSC Resolution.

I mean, let's be clear here:

The Bush Administration sent 2 nuclear-armed carrier groups to the Persian Gulf, to try and intimidate Iran into doing as it was told to by the Bush Administration.

And the Iranians successfully called the Bush Administration's bluff.

Not only did they not stop their Uranium enrichment program, they expanded it.

But lo and behold, what was it I DID see when I looked at the board, but an attempt by "you" to try and spin the situation as some kind of success for the Bush Administration.

I really was quite gob-smacked Foota. I mean, I know you're mostly divorced from reality, but I hadn't realised quite how critical the situation had become.

Everybody reading papers and watching TV in the Rest of the World, is seeing and hearing the news that Iran has defiantly ignored the US-created UNSC Resolutions. There's even quite significant undertones of dread, as the World watches and waits to see how the bellicose and sociopathic Bush Administration responds to their bluff being called in so humiliating a way (the expansion of the program is the humiliating bit Foota).

But it appears I can tell everyone not to fret. Because if that Post article is indicative of how the Bush Administration is going to try and spin this, we can all rest easier in our beds. Clearly the Bush Administration lacks the political, military and presumably economic capital to attack Iran, and was just hoping that some nuclear posturing would do the trick, and make Iran kow-tow to them without a shot needing to be fired.

Bluff called; no will or desire amongst the American People, military, House or Senate, Federal Reserve or Wall Street to start another disastrous fucking War in the Middle East; the Bush Administration can now limp-out its remaining days and hope to avoid prosecution.

Thank God that's over.

Peace