In Reply To #138

I just want to know where/when this idea developed?  Was it 9/11 that kicked off this resentment.  I have a feeling that 9/11 and the following war with Iraq and the media on-slaught as shaped American opinion for the worse.  It seems as though a large portion of America only believe what they hear the president say and what they see on their biased news sources.

I think it is really important to recognise that this is really more a dynamic mechanism than a specific idea.

Forget the fact that it might be Iranians, or Iraqis, or Palestinians, or Lebanese, or Cubans, or Venezuelans, or Chinese, or Russians, or Germans, or French (alright, maybe don't forget the French...), or the British..: Recognise the mechanism.

And recognise that it isn't a mechanism peculiar to the United States of America in the 21st Century either. It is the same mechanism used by all politicians, throughout the World, throughout History.

You can be assured that just as the Bush Administration in Washington D.C. is painting Iranian Society up to be composed of irrational, unsophisticated, suicidal, genocidal, theocratic lunatics; so too is the Iranian Administration in Tehran painting American Society up to be composed of militaristic, fundamentalist, immoral, rapaciously greedy, irrational, suicidal, genocidal, demagogic lunatics.

It's not the average U.S. Citizen in the street that gets described or pictured on Iranian TV; but the kind of fire-breathing, Fundamentalist moron from America's Bible Belt who celebrates the carnage in the Middle East as a sign of the impending "End Times". Most Americans know full well that these individuals are little more than an embarrassment, and certainly not representative of the larger American body politic.

But of course, the American media reciprocates - probably even more sensationally - the favour by presenting only the most extreme and shocking perspectives of Middle Eastern Society.

Like I said, it's the mechanism that is key, rather than the interchangeable subject matter.

And the mechanism is as old as "Civilisation".

Greek and Roman politicians would vilify and demonise their "enemies", in order to get the Public to pay the inordinate sums of money needed for military campaigns.

Rome was, as we know, a Great Empire, based in Italy. Yet somehow, Julius Caesar was able to convince the Senate and People of Rome that Chief Vercingetorix of Gaul was somehow a Clear and Present Danger to Rome, who had to be neutralised. The reality was that the Celtic Gauls wanted just to be left alone by Rome, and certainly had no intention of attacking Rome, much less the capability.

The British did the same with their various "foes" during the Empire years, particularly in India and Southern Africa. And of course, the Nazis did the same thing with the Jews in the 1930's.

The mechanism of demonising another Society, as a means to garner public support for offensive military or diplomatic actions against that Society, is as old as Civilisation.

The only really baffling thing is that supposedly, we Won't Get Fooled Again.

But apparently we will.

Peace