In Reply To #72

The question isn't whether we possess the "Courage To Stop the War With Iran." The real question is whether anyone really gives a shit.

I think that many Americans are soon going to be compelled to really give a shit.

I think that Americans are fast approaching the stage where the World is going to run out of patience, waiting for them to fulfil the responsibility that only they can, Peacefully.

America's Foreign Policy relationships with the Rest of the World have been mostly negative, since the Bush Administration squandered the enormous International good-will towards the America that followed 9/11. Despite the distractions provided by the machinations of Geo-Politicians of all nationalities, popular sentiment in the World towards the United States has never been lower.

Of course it is debatable, but in my experience-informed opinion, International contempt for the United States is currently at roughly the same point as it was for South Africa, shortly before the end of Apartheid.

One of the (several) reasons for the United States' astonishing trade deficit, is the poisonous association of the words "Made in the United States of America" with the actions of the Bush Administration.

However, the sympathies of the PEOPLE of the World, has for the greater part, remained with the People of the United States of America.

Whilst the domestic reaction to Hurricane Katrina's devastation of New Orleans remains a taboo subject in the popular American discourse; it was and is treated by the Rest of the First World at least, as a shocking indicator of the contempt in which the current U.S. Government holds its own population.

Our cultured and sophisticated European sympathies also lay with the many cultured and sophisticated Americans, like your good self Spook. One need only view the thoughtless ranting of someone like SomeGuy in a serious light, to understand just how effective the insidious propaganda campaign being run by the Bush Administration, actually is.

And people like you Spook, have to share America with people like SomeGuy.

*I* feel for you man, I really do.

It is abundantly clear to most Europeans, and many other people in the Rest of the World, that culturally, the "United [sic]" States of America is a highly polarised Society.

It is not a simple bi-polarity either; not just between Red and Blue. At the very least, America's cultural dysfunction is TRI-polar: Red, Blue and... Not-White; but that tri-polarity bisects another polarity: Rich, Poor and Fucked. Throw in God, Not-God and Anti-God, and Imperialism, Nationalism and Isolationism, and it's no wonder that Americans can't decide who or what they are.

Whatever the technical nature of the pathology, there is no doubting that social and cultural divisions in the United States, are exacerbated and capitalised upon by professional politicians, for career gain.

That's what America looks like, to the Rest of the World.

Psychologically, it's like watching someone trying to fix their own fractured personality, by trying to fix everyone else around them first.

See, the one thing that brainwashed individuals like SomeGuy can never accept, is that the one thing an individual, Society or Nation will always be worst at, is judging what they look like to others.

Of course, you don't take one person's word for it, but when you start to see a census develop about what it is you actually appear to be doing, and Who You Are, it's time to ask your self whether what you so determinedly believe is True of your Self, is really so.

Single individuals may have been wrong about you in your past, and you should certainly be wary of putting too much faith in any SINGLE idea your Self; no matter how flattering that idea is, and ESPECIALLY if it is a politician giving you that single idea about your Self.

But when you hear a whole SPECIES saying the same things about you: it's probably Time to sit-up and pay attention; and really consider if what you determinedly believe to be the "Way of Things", really *IS* the Way of Things.

Now then Spook, like I said: the Rest of the World *FEELS* for you, it really does.

*I* feel for you man.

But here's The Thing.

If the United States of America hadn't cut-off its Cultural ties with Europe as petulantly as it has done (and continues to do), then it would have remembered, by now, a VERY important piece of cultural wisdom.

It is a piece of Cultural Heritage that is as universal to Humanity, as it has been demonstrated repeatedly to negative effect in Europe down the years.

We Europeans know whereof we speak, when we express with gravity:

"With Great Power, comes Great Responsibility."

And we Europeans - and many, MANY other cultures around the World - see that the United States is a Great Power that is acting VERY irresponsibly.

That is the view of the Outside World, condensed to a virtually indisputable nutshell.

However, such a bite-size capsule of pertinent information has ZERO chance of getting through the cultural, ideological and psychological barriers that the Bush Administration has erected in the minds of people like SomeGuy. He could not even pause for a second to consider such a statement. He will recognise it immediately as a statement attacking his Government, and will instantly move to dismiss and deny.

Now then Spook, we Europeans get that about people like him, and about what his government has done to him.

What we don't fully understand, is why people like you Spook, haven't done something about this State of Affairs within the United States of America.

No group of ordinary citizens, anywhere in the World, possesses the same Peaceful facility to stop the relentless march of the Imperial U.S. War Machine, as middle-class America. Clearly, people like SomeGuy are too far gone to be able to be assisted by anyone not clearly and distinctly American.

Since no-one else can help them, it must be Americans that help them.

Citizens of the United States of America are empowered by their Declaration of Independence and their Constitution, to completely abolish their entire Government - and/or their SYSTEM of Government - any Time they choose.

Whatever egregious machinations the Bush Administration may have prepared for its remaining time in office, no other concerned group of individuals, outside of America's Middle Class, possesses a legal and internationally recognised facility to halt the Bush Administration in its tracks, without having to use force.

At the very least, American citizens can demand the impeachment hearings that the Democrat Party won't.

America's Middle Classes have been suckered AND BULLIED, into believing that to criticise the Bush Administration, or demand action against it, is somehow unpatriotic. With well-programmed, hostile and aggressive "Brownshirts" like SomeGuy acting as the Thought Police, any semblance of rational discussion of U.S. Foreign Policy, is drowned in specious rhetoric and spurious intellectualising; all backed up with the threat or actuality of verbal or physical violence; something usually inevitable, as the Brownshirt struggles to prevent common sense reasserting itself over his brainwashed programming.

Now whilst it's good fun poking people like SomeGuy with a stick, there reaches a point where, as they say on the West Side: the Shit Gets REAL.

A U.S. attack on Iran is, I think, not THAT likely to happen. But the Bush Administration - and particularly Vice-President Cheney - would dearly like to see an attack on Iran take place, before the end of its term.

*IF* the Bush Administration is EVER going to be able to attack Iran, before its Term Limit expires, then it MUST begin preparations for doing that now. Since those preparations largely consist of a re-run of the preparations for the Invasion of Iraq, it is just a question of waiting for a sufficient number of citizens to catch onto the idea of needing to Invade Iran.

I heard on the wire, that the Bush Administration is aiming for a 35-40% approval for a strike on Iran, to green light it.

But that'll take time to build-up: about six months or so, going on the run-up to the Invasion of Iraq.

And whether the Bush Administration decides to strike Iran in the next six months or not, it definitely will NOT be able to, if the propaganda campaign hasn't been running long enough to produce the required numbers. So the propaganda campaign runs whatever the eventual decision: which is why we can witness SomeGuy jumping through the required hoops above; even though there may eventually be no attack on Iran (which is why I'm guessing Foota is hedging his bets :)).

Right now, the Bush Administration has got sheep like SomeGuy on a hair-trigger.

Now I suspect that is (or will have been) in preparation for a suitably outrageous event implicating Iran to occur. Not something on the scale of 9/11, and almost certainly not in the mainland United States. But something unpleasant, probably in Iraq or Afghanistan ; costing sufficient American lives to get enough Americans behind the idea of a strike on Iran.

It's kind of irrelevant to discuss whether such an event would or could be staged, because it ignores the fact that such an event can be so much more easily (if less predictably) provoked than staged.

Some Iranian elements are more or less autonomous, and independent of central government control. Blaming Tehran for the actions of irregular and illegal Iranian paramilitaries for their conduct on the Iran-Iraq border; is a bit like blaming the government in Washington, D.C., because an Iranian tourist was shot dead in the Bronx.

On the whole, the Iranians don't NEED to do anything, but wait out the Bush Administration.

As the Brownshirts are want to remind us: the Iranian Government is a Theocracy, that doesn't rely on representative democracy to ensure probity in its Institutions. Therefore, kicking back and doing whatever it is Iranians do in-between preparing to defend against an attack by the United States (and/or Israel), would seem the like the best strategy.

Certainly no senseless provocation, if it can be helped.

Iran plays the victim; does nothing; soaks up the sympathy from all the Anti-American sentiment swishing around the Globe (whilst it continues, responsibly, to beef up its defences).  And its government sits back and lets the U.S. exhaust itself of blood, treasure, and democratic legitimacy.

Problem is, that with all these violent forces and tensions arrayed against each other, it would only take a single independent act on the part of an irregular or "Terrorist" Iranian group, to ignite the fuse that the Bush Administration's domestic popularity isn't currently sufficient to light.

Imagine that somewhere right now in the World, is a small, isolated and independent paramilitary group, plotting or engaged in the act that would give the U.S. a casus belli for attacking Iran.

And what Hell would follow such an attack.

It is clearly incumbent upon the majority of U.S. citizens who recognise the illegality and tragedy of the Bush Administration's actions, to take such actions as are necessary to defuse the situation between the United States and Iran.

The World may not be a "Better Place", as a result of the U.S. *NOT* attacking Iran; but it definitely will NOT be as bad as the World *WILL* become, if the U.S. DOES attack Iran.

That the Peaceful Future of Humanity is in the hands of someone like SomeGuy, is a joke of such cosmic proportions, that I'm sure we'll all be laughing at it for eons, after Armageddon.

That it is *ALSO* in the hands of the many, many, MANY more Americans like you Spook, is cause for Hope.

I'm just not sure how much longer the World can wait, for cultured, sophisticated and intelligent Americans to take back the fate of their country from brainwashed casualties like SomeGuy.

You have a democratic principle that you can exercise in any way you see fit.

Now might be a wise moment to do that.

Peace