Hey JFitch.

If you would like to discuss your beliefs about God, you know I'm always up for a bit of that.

I hope you also know that I always respect your beliefs, and your right to believe what you do.

I'm also interested in why you believe what you do, why it is important to you, and how you see the way in which your beliefs can benefit the World.

I'll talk about Spirituality with you all the live long day, and if you are interested, I'd even discuss my beliefs with you.

And I'll do all the above with the same respect and civility I know you always extend to me.

Now...

Perhaps I might also be able to help you understand why your beliefs, or at least the way you present your beliefs around here, incites such a vitriolic response:

Your God isn't a very nice God.

He seems to need a lot of things, and He seems to need a lot of things from the things that He created. And, if He doesn't get those things He seems to need from the things that He created, He seems to get very angry.

He seems to assure us that if we don't do what He wants us to do, and/or if we continue to do those things that He doesn't want us to do, He is going to send our everlasting souls to an eternity of torment.

I, and I think a lot of other people, just don't get why this God that is supposedly all powerful, needs so many things, nor why He needs us mere mortals to give Him the things He needs, on pain of damnation.

He doesn't sound like a very powerful God to me at all. He sounds actually rather needy and neurotic, as well as being rather unpleasant company to be around.

Why, on Earth, would a person want to worship a God like that?

Indeed, I think, somewhere along the way, your God has really screwed up his Quality Control.

It is apparently so necessary that He gets the things from us that He needs, that He has gone to all the trouble of creating Hellish dimensions where, as best I can tell, the overwhelming majority of souls are going to be stored for Eternity.

That's quite a reject pile.

At some point, you'd think that a God with any degree of Self-Awareness might question why He keeps creating such faulty goods. You might even think that at some point, He might take a look at the fabrication process, and see if He can make any improvements.

Of course, in Reality, I think your actual problem is not with the God you believe in, but in the dogma that you have ascribed to.

And I think the big problem you have with your current dogma, is that it is a 1st Century dogma that you are trying to apply to the 21st Century.

Now I realise that you might say that the problems of Today, are the result of not enough people paying enough attention to the dogma of Yesterday. But here's the thing JF:

Your God's dogma - or variations thereof - *WAS* the prevailing orthodoxy, for, well, pretty much the last two thousand years, give or take. And look at what kind of World it has created.

People were convinced that they were separated from God, and convinced that they had to dedicate their lives to trying to earn forgiveness from God. It wasn't, apparently, their fault directly, but the fault of a couple of people who had Everything, but threw it all away in exchange for a brief moment of personal gratification.

And yet with absolutely no facility to go back in Time and plead with Adam and/or Eve not to eat that Forbidden Fruit, the thousand generations that followed that pair are, apparently, still being punished for what seems to me and many others, to be a trivial transgression. If indeed, that was how it all played out.

Religion has told us that we must be obedient. Religion has told us that we must not question the way that the World works, or the way that God works. Religion has, in fact, tried to hold back Human Progress at every turn. Religion has been responsible for many if not all of Humanity's most egregious behaviours. Religion to this day continues to preach intolerance, continues to divide humans into the Blessed and the Sinners.

Religions can't get on with each other, and Religions tell Human Beings not to get on with one another.

Looking around me today, it strikes me that Religion doesn't actually have a great deal to do with God, if indeed it ever did. Religion seems far more concerned with its own survival than it does the survival of Humanity as a Whole. Religions fight and squabble amongst each other about who has the exclusively correct definition of God, and of What God Wants.

Religions divide people, they do not unite them.

And right about now, at this Moment in Humanity's History, I think that the majority of people, atheists, agnostics and even many people who do believe in a non-dogmatically defined God, recognise that what our species needs more than anything else, is Unity.

Maybe not everyone thinks in those terms, but it seems to me that most people feel it that way.

So are you really surprised that nobody wants to listen to, much less entertain those ideas that have, clearly, had their Time without producing any lasting positive results?

I don't think anyone around here is attacking you directly JF. In fact, knowing this lot as I do, I think that there is something of a fondness and respect for you. Not for your religious beliefs mind you, but you as an individual human being.

And it isn't that they feel that their beliefs and understandings are superior to yours either; but that they are fully aware that your beliefs have been tried and applied for many centuries, and have been found sorely wanting.

That's all.

[face_peace]